All right, this is CS50's Introduction to Programming with Python. My name is David Malan and this is our week on functions and variables. But odds are, many of you, most of you, have never actually programmed before. So let's start by doing just that. Let me go ahead here and open up my computer and on it, a program called Visual Studio Code or VS Code, which is just a very popular program nowadays for actually writing code. Now, you don't have to write code using this particular tool. In fact, all we need at the end of the day is a so-called text editor, a program for writing text. And, heck, if you really want, you could even use something like Google Docs or Microsoft Word. You'd have to save it in the right format, but really, at the end of the day, all you need is a program for writing text because that's what code is-- text. 

Now within this particular program, I'm going to have the ability to create one or more files via this top portion of the screen. And I'm going to do so by diving right in and doing this at the bottom of my screen. At the bottom of my screen is a so-called terminal window and this is a command line interface or CLI interface to the underlying computer, be it your Mac or your PC or even some server in the cloud. And what I'm going to do here is literally write, "code" and then the name of the file that I want to code, for instance, Hello.py. As we'll soon see, any program that you write in Python generally has a file name that ends in .py to indicate to the computer that it's indeed a program written in Python. 

Now you'll see here at the top of my screen, I have a blinking cursor, a line one-- which is where the very first line of my code is going to go-- and then just a tab that reminds me of the name of this file Hello.py. And without even knowing much Python, I'm going to write my very first program here as follows-- print("hello,world"). And you'll see that, at my keyboard, some of my thoughts were finished for me. I only had to type one parenthesis and the other one automatically appeared, and that's just the feature that we'll see of tools like this tool here. 

Now even if you've never programmed before, odds are you can guess, infer what this simple program is going to do. And it's only one line. print("hello,world"). Indeed, when I run this program ultimately, it's just going to say, Hello to the world. And, in fact, this is a very famous-- perhaps the most canonical-- program that you can write as your very first program in Python or any other language, and so that's what I've done here. But on my Mac, my PC, even my phone, I'm generally in the habit, like you, of running programs by double clicking an icon or just tapping on the screen. But I see no such icons here. And in fact, that's because my interface to at least my current Mac or PC or some server in the cloud, is again only a CLI-- command line interface-- which even though it might feel like it's a step back from the menus and buttons and icons that you and I take for granted every day, you'll find, we think, that it's ultimately a much more powerful interface and incredibly popular to use among programmers in the real world. 
