
So let's do just that. Let me go back to VS Code here. I already typed out Python of Hello.py but I didn't get hit Enter. And that's what's now going to kick off this command and hopefully, if I didn't mess any of this up, I should see my very first program's output to the screen. And voila, hello, world. So if you too have typed exactly that same code and have executed exactly that same command, you will have written your very first program in this case in Python. 

Well now let's take a step back and consider, what is it that we actually just did and what is it we're looking here on the screen? Well first and foremost, in most any programming language, you tend to have access to what are called functions. A function is like an action or a verb that lets you do something in the program. And generally speaking, any language comes with some predetermined set of functions-- some very basic actions or verbs that the computer will already know how to do for you, that the language, really, will know how to do for you. And you, the programmer, the human, can use those functions at will to get the computer to do those things. 

Now the program in question here, Hello.py is using one function. And you could perhaps guess what it is. That function is, of course, going to be this function print and that print function, of course, doesn't print some preordained string of text. That is to say, it prints whatever it is you want it to print. And here too, do we have another piece of terminology in the world of programming, namely arguments. An argument is an input to a function that somehow influences its behavior. The people who invented Python, of course, didn't necessarily know what it is you and I are going to want to print to the screen, so they designed this print function using these parentheses with the ability to take as input some string of text, be it in English or any other human language, that is what you want this function ultimately to print onto the screen. 

And what is it that the program is ultimately doing on the screen? Well, it's printing, of course. It's showing us hello, world on the screen. And that's generally in programming known as a side effect. It can be visual, it can be audio. In this case, it's something that appears on the screen and functions, therefore, can indeed have these side effects. One of the things they can do as this verb or action is to display on the screen as a side effect, something like those words that we wanted-- hello, world. 

So that's my first program and, you know, I'm feeling pretty good. Everything worked as planned. I didn't make any mistakes, but, honestly, when you're learning how to program and even once you've learned how to program years later, you're going to make mistakes.
