

And those mistakes, of course, are referred to a term you might already know, which is that of a bug. A bug is a mistake in a program and they can take so many forms. And take comfort, perhaps, in knowing that over the coming weeks, you're going to make so many mistakes. You're going to have so many bugs in your code, just like I did and just as I still do. And those bugs themselves are just mistakes that are problems for you to solve. And over the weeks to come, we're going to give you a lot of tools both mental and technical via which you can solve those problems. But just don't get discouraged if when writing your program for the first time it doesn't even work that first time, it will with time, with practice, and with experience. 

So let me deliberately now make a mistake that there was a non-zero chance I might have done accidentally already, but I got lucky. Let me go ahead and just suppose I forgot to include something like the closing parenthesis at the end of this line of code. The code is almost correct, it's like 99% of the way there, but now that I've pointed it out, it's pretty obvious that it's missing that closed parenthesis. But even little, seemingly minor details like that, that you and I as humans wouldn't really care about. And if you're sending an email or a text message, whatever, it's just a typo. It's not that big a deal. It is going to be a big deal to the computer. A computer is going to take you literally, and if you don't finish your thought in the way the language expects, it's not going to necessarily run at all. 

So let's do this. I'm going to go ahead here and clear my screen down at the bottom just so I can start fresh, and I'm going to go ahead and run this version of my program after having made that change by deleting the parenthesis. I'm going to go ahead and type Python again of Hello.py and this time when I hit Enter, I'm hoping I'm going to see hello, world, but here we have an error on the screen, a so-called syntax error, which refers to my having made a mistake at my keyboard. And this one, fortunately, is pretty straightforward. It indeed says that this open parenthesis was never closed. And so that's probably pretty intuitive. Now what I need to do, I need to, of course, to close it. Unfortunately, sometimes the error messages we'll see in the coming weeks are not going to be nearly that user-friendly. But there too again, with experience, with practice, will you get better at debugging such programs. 

Let me now make sure that I indeed fixed it correctly. Let me go ahead and run now Hello.py and hit Enter and, voila, we're back in business.