

Let's consider now how we might go about improving this program. Let's go about improving this program to make it a little more interactive and not just assume that everyone is going to want to be greeted more generically as hello, world. Let's see if I can't get this program to say something like Hello, David or Hello, Jeremiah or Hello, Horatio or whatever the actual user's name is. Well to do this I'm going to go back up to Hello to pi and I'm going to add another line of code at the very top that simply says, for instance, what's your name, quote unquote with an extra space at the end. 

So I'm printing to the user asking them a question for some input, but now I need another function to actually get input from the user. And, perfectly, enough Python comes with a function named input. So here I'm going to go ahead and call a function input, open paren, close paren. And that's going to prompt the user with just a blinking cursor waiting for them to type something in. Now it turns out, if I read the documentation for the input function, it actually takes an argument itself. I don't need to use "print" separately and then prompt the user for input. So I can actually simplify this code before we even use it. I'm going to go ahead here and take that same string from print, put it as an argument to the input function, and get rid of the "print" altogether. And, in fact, that "print" would have added a new line anyway. So now I've just got a prompt where the user's cursor is going to end up blinking at the end of the line asking them, what's your name? 

In my terminal window I'm going to run Python of Hello.py, Enter. OK. We're making progress. It seems that this new function input is indeed prompting me, the human, for input. So I'm going to type in my name-- David-- and hit Enter. Unfortunately, it doesn't really do anything with my name, it just outputs it immediately. All right, well, I could fix this, right? I could go up to line 2 and I could change "world" to "David," and then back in my terminal window here I can do Python of Hello.py, Enter. What's your name? David, Enter. And there we go. All right now I'm up and running. Now my program is working as intended. 

Of course, this isn't really working as intended here. Let me go ahead and try pretending to be my colleague, Carter here. Well Carter's name is this. I'm going to go ahead and hit Enter and I'll see, of course, Hello, Carter-- well, obviously not, because I've hardcoded, so to speak, I've written literally my name inside of the string. So we need some way now of actually getting back what the user's input is and doing something with it ultimately. And for this we're going to leverage another feature of programming, specifically a feature of some functions, which is that they can have return values as well. 

If you think of input as being, again, this action, this verb-- you can actually personify it as maybe a person, like a friend of yours that you've asked a question of and you've asked your friend to go get input from someone else-- go ask that person their name. And if your friend comes back knowing that person's name, well, wouldn't it be nice if they handed that name back to you? That's kind of what we need metaphorically the function to do, is get the user's input and then hand it back to me so that I, the programmer, can do something with it. 

But if it's going to be handed back to me, I kind of want to put it somewhere so that I can then print it back on the screen. I need to do the equivalent of take out like a piece of paper or Post-It note, write down on this piece of paper what it is the human has said, so that I can then feed it into as input that print function. And to do that, we're going to need one more feature of programming, namely variables. And odds are, most everyone's familiar with variables from math class way back when-- x and y and z and the like. Well, programming has that same capability, this ability to create a variable-- in this case, in the computer's memory-- not just on a piece of paper. And that variable can store a value-- a number, some text, even an image or video or more. A variable is just a container for some value inside of a computer or inside of your own program. 

So how do I go about expressing myself in this way? Well I think what I'm going to do is introduce a variable that's a little more interestingly named than x or y. I could just say this-- x = input. But I'm going to use a better name than a typical mathematical variable here and I'm going to literally call my variable "name," why? Well in programming, because I have a whole keyboard in front of me, I can use more descriptive terms to describe what it is I'm writing. And now, though, there's an opportunity to consider a specific piece of syntax. We've seen parentheses, we've seen quotes, all of which are necessary when passing inputs to a function, but this equal sign here that's in between input on the right and name on the left is actually important. And it's technically not an equal sign per se. It doesn't mean equality as much as it means assignment. 

So in Python and many programming languages, a single equal sign is the assignment operator and what that means specifically is that, you want to assign from right to left whatever the user's input is. So the equal sign copies from the right to the left whatever the return value of the function on the right is. So again, the input function clearly gets input from the user. That's why I was able to type my name or Carter's, but it also sort of behind the scenes hands that value, that return value, back to me the programmer. And if I use an equal sign and a variable, no matter what I call it, I can store that input in that variable so as to reuse it later. 

So now, sitting in the computer's memory somewhere, is a container containing "David" quote, unquote or "Carter" quote, unquote, or whatever the human has typed in. But here it's easy to make a mistake. Suppose I decide to try to print that name and so I kind of on a hunch type in this, hello, name. Just kind of plugging in the name of the variable. Well let me go ahead here and run Python of Hello.py and hit Enter. That's going to prompt me for my name. And let me type in my name-- D-A-V-I-D. But I haven't hit Enter yet. And perhaps via the chat, what's going to happen here when I now hit Enter? I'm hoping it says, Hello, David. I'd be OK if it says Hello, world, but I don't want it to say what it's actually going to say and, yep, what we're seeing in the chat is, well, it's probably going to say literally Hello, name. 

So that's not quite right. So we need another way of printing out the value inside of that variable rather than just this word "name." Well let me try this in a couple of different ways. Let me try this as follows-- let me go ahead and maybe undo this because I've gotten pretty good already at saying Hello. So let's draw that line in the sand and just say, all right, let's get at least get Hello comma out the door. Let's now print name and just on a hunch, I'm going to try this. I'm going to use print again-- because you can use these functions as many times as you need-- and I'm going to pass to the print function the variable called name. But notice I'm being a little clever now. I'm not putting it in double quotes because we've seen already that double quotes means literally print out N-A-M-E. I'm getting rid of the quotes this time in hopes that, now by passing the variable called name to the function called print it will, in fact, go about printing the contents of that variable that is, its so-called value. 

All right, let's go ahead and do this here. Python of Hello.py, Enter. What's your name? David. And now, crossing my fingers still, I see Hello comma David. All right. So it's not the best program. I'm kind of cutting some corners here, so to speak. I'm saying Hello, David on two separate lines. So it's not as elegant, it's not as pretty, it's not as grammatically appropriate in English as just saying it all in one breath on one line, but at least I've solved the problem, just not very well yet.