All right, well, you don't mind, let me forge ahead here and see how we might improve this program further and also introduce a few other features that we might want to take into account over time. So it turns out that we can certainly improve on this program because it's a little disappointing that I'm cutting this corner and saying Hello comma and then on a new line printing out name. Like we can do better. And most programs you use on your phone or your laptop certainly keep text together when people want. So how can we go about doing that? Well there's a few different ways. And in fact, the goal here is not so much to solve this one problem, but to demonstrate and emphasize that in programming-- Python and other languages-- there's so many ways sometimes to solve the same problem. And here's one way to solve this problem. 

Let me go in here and let me go ahead now and say hello, and let me just add to the end of that the user's name. So I'm using + in kind of an interesting way. This is not addition, per se. I'm not adding numbers, obviously, but I do kind of want to add the person's name to the string of text Hello comma. Well let me go now down to my terminal window and run Python of Hello.py again, Enter. What's your name? I'm going to type in David. Enter. OK, it's better. It's better, but there's a minor bug, albeit aesthetic here. There's missing space, but let's just use some intuition here. Well, if I'm missing the space after the comma, why don't I go ahead and just add it manually here. Let me now rerun the program Python of Hello.py, Enter, David, Enter. And there we go. Now we have something that looks a little prettier in terms of English grammar. Hello, comma, space, David. 

And now if we rewind, you might have noticed before or wondered why I had this seemingly extra space after my question mark, namely here. There's a space after the question mark but before the double quote and that was just for aesthetics too. I wanted to move the user's cursor one space to the right so that when I typed their name or they typed their name, it's not immediately next to that same question mark there. But there's other ways we can do this. 

It turns out that some functions, print among them, actually take multiple arguments. And it turns out that if you separate the inputs to a function-- the so-called arguments to a function-- with a comma, you can pass in not just one, but two, three, four, five, onward. So let me go ahead and pass in not just hello, comma, space, but that followed by name. And this is a little confusing potentially at first glance because now I've got two commas but it's important to note that the first comma is inside of my quotation marks, which is simply an English grammatical thing. The second comma here is outside of the quotes, but between what are now two separate arguments to print. The first argument is hello, comma, space. The second argument is the name variable itself. So let's see how this looks. 

Python of Hello.py, Enter. What's your name? David. Enter. OK, I've kind of over-corrected. Now I've got two spaces for some reason. Well, it turns out, and this is subtle, when you pass multiple arguments to print, it automatically inserts a space for you. This was not relevant earlier because I was passing in one big argument to print all at once by using that + operator. This time I'm passing in two because of the comma. So if I don't want that extra space, I don't need to pass in one myself, I can just do this and now notice, if I run this program again-- Python of Hello.py, type in my name David, now it looks grammatically like I might want. 

Now which of these approaches is better? This approach uses a function print with two arguments-- Hello, comma and the name variable. The previous version, recall, technically used one argument, even though it looked a little curious. It's one argument in the sense that the computer, just like mathematicians, are going to do what's inside of parentheses first. So if inside of parentheses you have this string of text-- hello, comma, and a space, which I need to add back. Then you have a +, which means not addition, per se, but concatenation-- to join the thing on the left and the thing on the right. This ultimately becomes the English phrase-- Hello, comma, space, David. And then what's being passed ultimately to the function is technically something like this, but it's doing it all dynamically. It's not me typing in David as I discreetly did earlier. It's figuring out dynamically what that value is after concatenating Hello with the value of name and then passing that ultimately to print as the sole argument. 

Let me pause here to see if there's any questions on numbers of arguments now to functions. 

AUDIENCE: Can we use a function many times to solve a certain problem which we can encounter many times in our code? 

DAVID MALAN: You can. You can use a function many different times to solve some problem. What we'll soon see, though, is if you find yourself as the programmer solving a problem the same way again, and again, and again, it turns out you'll be able to make your own function so that you don't have to keep reusing the basic ones that come with the language. 

AUDIENCE: I was curious about the comma and the + sign. So after + sign, can we give just one variable and after comma again we give multiple variable status? What is the difference? 

DAVID MALAN: A good question. So in the context of strings-- and I keep using that term. "String" is a technical term in a programming language and again, it means a sequence of text-- a character, a word, a whole paragraph, even. So the + operator is not just used, as we'll see, for addition of numbers in Python, like we do on paper pencil, but it also is used for concatenation of strings on the left and the right. If you did want to combine not just two strings-- left and right-- but a third and a fourth, you can absolutely keep using +, +, +, +, and chain them together just like in math. Eventually that's going to start to look a little ugly, I dare say, especially if your line of code gets long. So there's better ways that we'll actually soon see. And a good question as well. 
