Well let me come back to the code here in question and see if we can show you just a couple of other ways to solve the same problem, along the way emphasizing that what we're technically talking about here, yes, are strings, but there's even a technical term for these strings in Python, it's just STR, so to speak, S-T-R for short, for string. As you may know if you programmed in other languages, people who invent programming languages like to be very succinct, to the point, so we tend to use fairly short phrases to describe things, not necessarily full words. So while you might say "string," technically in Python what we're really talking about, these sequences of text, are technically STRs. This is an actual type of data in a program. But we'll soon see that there's other types of data in programs as well. In fact, let's see if we can't improve this in one other way. 

I like the progress we've made by keeping everything on the same line-- Hello, David all on the same line. What more though could we do in terms of solving this problem? Well, it turns out that we didn't have to give up entirely with using print twice. Let me rewind a little bit and go back to that earlier version where I wasn't really sure how to solve this problem so I was using print once to print out just the Hello and the space and the comma. And then I used print again to print name. That's, strictly speaking, wasn't bad, but there was this visual side effect that I didn't like. It just looked ugly to have these two lines of text separate from one another. But there's another way to fix this. 

Clearly it seems to be the case that the print function is automatically outputting a blank line. It's moving the cursor automatically for me to the next line because that's why I'm seeing Hello on one line and David on the next and then my prompt-- the dollar sign-- on the line below that. So print seems to be presuming automatically that you want it to move the cursor to the next line after you pass it some argument. But you can override that behavior. Again, functions take arguments which influence their behavior, you just have to know what those arguments are. And it turns out that if we look at the documentation for Python's print function, we can actually look up at this URL here-- docs.python.org is where all of Python's official documentation lies. 

If I poke around, I can find my way to more specifically this URL here where I can find all of the available functions in Python and the documentation there for. And if I go a little more precisely, I can even find specific documentation for the print function itself. And rather than pull that up in a browser, I'm going to go ahead and highlight just one line from that same URL, which is this, and this is easily the most cryptic thing we've seen yet, but this is the official documentation for the print function. And one of the best things you can do when learning a programming language is, honestly, learn to read the documentation, because truly, all of the answers to your questions will in some way be there, even though, admittedly, it's not always obvious. And I will say too, Python's documentation isn't necessarily the easiest thing, especially for a first time or novice programmer. It too just takes practice, so try not to get overwhelmed if you're not sure what you're looking at. 

But let me walk you through this example. This again is a line of text from Python's official documentation for the print function. What this indicates as follows is this-- the name of this function is, of course print. Then there's a parenthesis over here and another close parenthesis way over there. Everything inside of those parentheses are the arguments, the potential arguments, to the function. However, when we're looking at these arguments in the documentation like this, there's technically a different term that we would use. These are technically the parameters to the function. So when you're talking about what you can pass to a function and what those inputs are called, those are parameters. When you actually use the function and pass in values inside of those parentheses, those inputs, those values are arguments. So we're talking about the exact same thing-- parameters and arguments are effectively the same thing, but the terms you use from looking at the problem from different directions. When we're looking at what the function can take versus what you're actually passing into the function. 

So what does this imply? Well this syntax is pretty cryptic, but at the moment, just know that an asterisk, a star, and then the word "objects" means that the print function can take any number of objects. You can pass in 0 strings of text, one string like I did, two strings like I did, or, technically, infinitely many if you really want, though that code is not going to look very good. After that we see a comma, then we see another parameter here called SEP, short for separator in English. And notice the equal sign and the single quote, space, single quote. So 'space' I don't know what that is yet, but I think we've seen a hint about it. 

Let's focus though for a moment on this-- the print function takes another parameter called end and the default value of that parameter is apparently, based on this equal sign and these quotes, \n. And what is \n, if you'd like to chime in in the chat? Anyone who's program before has probably seen this, though if you've never programmed before, this might look quite cryptic. Backslash n means new line, and it's a way textually of indicating if and when you want the computer effectively to move the cursor to the next line, create a new line of text. And so technically, if we read into the documentation, we'll see more detail on this. The fact that there's a parameter called end in the documentation for the print function, just means that by default this print function is going to end every line with \n. You don't literally see \n, you see a new line. You see the cursor moving to the next line. 

Now by that logic, let's move backwards. SEP four separator-- the default value of separator is apparently a single blank space. Well where have we seen that? Well recall in an earlier example when I passed in not just one but two arguments to the print function. Recall that they magically had a space between them. In fact, they had that space + my own space and that's why I deleted my space because at that point it was extra. So this just means that when you pass multiple arguments to print, by default they're going to be separated by a single space. By default, when you pass arguments to print, it's the whole thing is going to be ended with a new line. 

Now just by knowing this, and let me literally wave my hand at the rest of the documentation for another day, there's more things that print can do, but we're going to focus just on SEP and on END, let's see if we can't leverage this now to solve that original problem. The original problem was this, I don't like how Hello, David is on two different lines. Well that's happening again because print is automatically printing out a new line, so let's tell it not to do that. Let's tell it by passing a second argument to the first use of PRINT to say END = quote, unquote-- not \n, which is the default automatically. Let's make it quote, unquote nothing else. Let's override the default value so there is no new line. There's literally nothing there. And let's see what happens. 

Let me now go down to my terminal window and clear it. And I'm going to run Python of Hello.py, Enter. I'm going to type in my name, David and I think now everything is going to stay on the same line because-- and it did-- this line here, 5, is going to print out Hello, comma, space, but then nothing at the end of it because I changed it to be quote, unquote. The second line is going to print the name, David, or whatever the human's name is, and it will move the cursor to the next line because I didn't override the value of END there. 

Just to see this more explicitly, if you do something cryptic like, well I have no idea what's going on. Let me just put in temporarily three question marks here. We'll see the results of this too. Let me go back down to my terminal window, run Python of hello. py, what's your name? David. And now you see literally really ugly output, but you see literally what's going on. Hello, comma, space, then three question marks, END, that print statement, and then you see D-A-V-I-D. So not a good outcome, but it demonstrates just how much control we have here too. 

And let me rewind further. Recall that in our other version of this, when I passed in Hello, comma and name, they were separated by a single space. So Python of Hello.py, D-A-V-I-D, Enter. That just worked. Well what if we override the value of SEP for separator? Instead of being one space, we could say something like, question mark, question mark, question mark just to wrap our minds around what's going on there. Let me now do Python of Hello.py, D-A-V-I-D, Enter. And you see two. These two inputs-- Hello, comma and the name are now separated in an ugly way by three question marks because I've overridden the default behavior of SEP. 

And even though the documentation uses single quotes, I've been in the habit of using double quotes. In Python you can use either. Strictly speaking, it doesn't matter, but you should be consistent and I generally always use double quotes. Python's documentation, though, always uses single quotes. Questions now on these types of parameters? And allow me to propose that we give these an official name. Up until now, when we've been passing values to print, those are called positional parameters-- positional in the sense that the first thing you pass to print gets printed first. The second thing you pass to print after a comma gets printed second. And so forth. But there's also these things we've now seen called named parameters. Named SEP, separator, or END, E-N-D for the line ending. Those are named parameters because one, they're optional and you can pass them in at the end of your print statement, but you can also use them by name. 