AUDIENCE: This may be a weird question, but I was wondering, what if someone wants to add actually quotation marks within the quotation marks? 

DAVID MALAN: Yeah, I like how you think. This is what we would call a corner case, right? Just when we've made-- right, this is all sounding great, at least as programming goes, but, wait a minute, what if you want to print a quote? That's a really good question. Well, let's see if we can't figure this out. Suppose that I want to print out not just the user's name. Let me simplify this further. Let me go ahead and get rid of a lot of this, and let me just say something like, Hello-- maybe I'm being a little sarcastic here. Hello, (sarcastically) "friend." You know, in that kind of tone. Well this is not going to work, actually, because you are trying to use quotes to be like "friend" in finger quotes, but you're also trying to end the sentence. And if I try running this, let's do this. Python of Hello.py, you'll see that this is just invalid syntax. Perhaps you forgot a comma. And this is actually a bit annoying. Sometimes the error messages you see are misleading. Like the computer, the language, doesn't really know what's going on so it gives its best guess, but it's not necessarily correct. 

But I can solve this problem in a couple of ways. I can do this-- I can change my outermost quotes to single quotes. Because recall a moment again, I said you could use double quotes or single quotes so long as you're consistent. So that's fine. If you use single quotes on the outside, you can then use double quotes on the inside and you'll see them literally. So for instance, if I run Python of Hello.py, there we go. Hello, "friend." 

But there's another way. If you insist on using double quotes as you might want to, just to be consistent, you can also use that backslash character again. We saw the \n a moment ago. And that meant we don't want a literal n to be in the output, we wanted a new line. So the backslash actually represents what's called an escape character. An escape character is one that you can't just type necessarily once on your keyboard. You need to express it with multiple characters. So I can actually put backslashes in front of these inner double quotes so that the computer realizes, Oh wait a minute, those aren't quotes that finish or start the thought, they're literal quotes. So now let me go back to my terminal window, run Python of Hello.py, Enter. And now it's working as well. So escaping is a general technique that allows us to do that too. 
