But let me propose that we consider now yet other things we can do with strings. And it turns out that even as we've been doing some relatively simple operations here, we've generally been trusting that the user is going to cooperate and that is to say that they're going to actually type in what we want them to type. 

Now just because they type a string, though, doesn't mean it's going to look the way we want. You and I, honestly, as humans are actually in the habit-- on websites and apps-- of like accidentally hitting the spacebar a lot, either at the beginning of our input or at the end, maybe because the space bar tends to be so big. It's pretty common to get accidental spaces before or after some users' input. You and I are definitely in the habit of not necessarily capitalizing words like we should. If we're sending text messages, we're probably being a little quick and just sending everything in lowercase, for instance, if that's your style, if your phone's not fixing it for you. Maybe in a formal letter you would capitalize things properly. But you and I as humans, we can't really be trusted to type things in a nice way necessarily when using some piece of software, be it an app or a website or something else. 

But it turns out that strings themselves come with a lot of built-in functionality. You can see all of that in Python's own documentation here. The string data type that we've been talking about comes with a lot of functionality built in that means that we can manipulate the user's input to do more than just join it with something else like Hello, we can actually clean it up or reformat it in a way that hopefully looks a little better for us. 

So let me go back to my code here and let me just demonstrate what might happen if a user doesn't cooperate. If I go ahead here and run Python of Hello.py, Enter. Let me just sloppily hit the spacebar a few too many times. Why? I just wasn't paying attention. And now I'm going to type in my name D-A-V-I-D and, I don't know, I hit the spacebar a couple more times. Like it's kind of a mess. It's all lowercase. That's not going to necessarily look grammatically right. It's got spaces here and here. The program is going to print exactly that and that looks really bad, at least if we're prioritizing aesthetics and grammar. Like, why are there so many spaces after the comma? This is not a very nice way to greet your users. 

But we can clean this up. It turns out that built into strings, which, again, is this data type, so to speak, this type of data in Python-- is the ability to actually do things to that string. So let me do this, I can actually go ahead and do something like this-- name = name.strip. And what does this do? Remove white space from string. And what do I mean by this? Well, on the right-hand side, notice I've written the variable name called Name. I've then used a period or a dot, and then I seem to be doing what's a function, right? Any time we've seen a function thus far, we see the function's name-- print or input, then we see a parenthesis, then another parenthesis, and that's exactly what I see here. 

But I'm using this function a little differently. Technically, this function is-- in this context-- called a method. And what do I mean by that? Well, if Name is a string, a.k.a. STR, well it turns out, according to the documentation, there's a lot of functions that come with strings in Python. And you can access that functionality by using the name of a string like literally name here, then a period, then the name of the, function and then an open parenthesis and a closed parenthesis. Maybe some arguments inside of those parentheses, but in this case, it doesn't need any arguments. I just want to strip the space from the left and the space from the right of the user's input. But that's not enough. I want to remember that I've stripped off that white space on the left and the right, so I'm going to use the equal sign again here. And notice that just as before, this doesn't mean equality, this means assignment from right to left. So when this line of code here-- name.strip-- returns to me, a.k.a. a return value, it will return the same thing that the user typed in, but with no more white space to the left or to the white [CHUCKLES] to the right. 

So then the equal sign assignment is going to copy that value from the right to the left, thereby updating the value inside of my name variable. So you can not only assign values to variables, you can absolutely change the value of variables by just using the assignment operator, the equal sign again, and again, and again, and it will just keep copying from right to left whatever the new value should be. 

So now if I rerun this program, Python of Hello.py, Enter. I have D-A-V-I-- oop, let's do it again. Space, space, space, space, space. d-a-v-i-d in all lowercase, space, space, Enter. It's better. It hasn't fixed my capitalization, so I'm still being a little sloppy with the first D, But it has stripped off all of that extra space. Super minor detail, right? Like this isn't all that exciting, but it just speaks to the power of what you can do with just a single line of code. 

Now what else can I do here? Well I could capitalize the user's input. Let me go ahead and try this. It turns out that I could also do this-- name.capitalize. So let me go ahead and capitalize user's name. And again, I'm making comments and there's no one right way to write the comments. I'm just using some short English phrases here to remind myself of what I'm doing. What's now going on here? Well let me go ahead and run Python of Hello.py, Enter. Space, space, space, space, space, d-a-v-i-d, space, space, Enter. OK. Now it's looking prettier, right? No matter how the user typed in their name, even a little sloppily, I'm now fixing that. 

But let's try something. I'm getting a little curious here. How about this? Space, space, space, space, space, d-a-v-i-d space m-a-l-a-n-- I'll use my last name now-- Enter. OK, so ironically, "capitalize" is not really capitalizing everything we want. It's clearly capitalizing what? Just the very first letter. So it turns out that, again, there's other functions in Python that come with strings. And if we poke around the documentation, scrolling through a URL like that, I bet we'll find another solution, one of which is actually this. 

Let's actually change this to title. There's yet another function that comes with strings called Title that do title-based capitalization, just like a book or a person's name, capitalizing the first letter of each word. And this is just going to do a little more work for us. So let's go ahead and run this. And as an aside, I'm kind of tired now at this point of typing Python, Python, Python all the time. It turns out that when using a command line interface like this, you can actually go back through all of your old commands. What I just did a moment ago was I hit the up arrow. That immediately goes back through my history of all of the commands I've ever typed. So this is just a faster way now for me to repeat myself than typing everything manually. 

Let me go ahead and hit Enter, space, space, space, space, space, d-a-v-i-d m-a-l-a-n space, space, all lowercase, Enter. Now it's looking better. Now I've capitalized things and cleaned things up. But what about my code? I've got like eight lines of code now, four of which are comments, four of which are actual code. Do I really need this much? Well, not necessarily. Watch what I can also do in Python. Let me not bother capitalizing the user's name separately. Let me say this-- and capitalize user's name. I can chain these functions together. I can add Title to the end of this. And now what's happening? Well again, with a line of code like this, you first focus on what's to the right of the equal sign, then we'll get to the left of the equal sign. 

What's on the right of the equals sign? This line here. Well what does this mean? Get the value of the name variable, like D-A-V-I-D space, M-A-L-A-N. Then strip off the white space on the left and the right. That is going to return a value. It's going to return D-A-V-I-D space M-A-L-A-N without any white space to the left or right. What do you want to do with that return value? You want Python to title case it, that is go through every word in that resulting string and fix the first letter of the first word, the first letter of the second word, and so forth. And then-- now we can finish our thought-- copy the whole thing from right to left into that same name variable. 

And you know what? I can take this even one step further. Why don't we go ahead and do this if we want. Let me get rid of all of that, and let me just do strip and title all on that first line. And now we've gone from like eight lines of code to four. It's a lot tighter. It's a lot neater. And even though reasonable people might disagree, it's arguably better because it's just easier to read. Fewer lines of code, fewer opportunities for mistakes, it just allows me to move on with my next problem to solve. 

All right, let me pause here and see if there's any questions on these methods. A method is a function that's built in to a type of value, like these functions are. Or on F strings which we saw a moment ago. 

AUDIENCE: Yes, hi. Thanks, David. So is there a way to remove the spaces between the spaces that I might have added? 

DAVID MALAN: Short answer, no. If you read the documentation at that same URL earlier, you'll see that strip removes from the left and the right, but not in between. In fact, there's two other functions that come with strings. One is called L strip, the other is called R strip, that allow you to do one or the other. If we want to start getting rid of space in the middle, we're going to have to do a different trick altogether. 