AUDIENCE: How many functions can be combine like this dot strip, dot title, all combined. So how many we can combine? 

DAVID MALAN: Yeah, a really good question. Technically, as many as you want, but at some point your code is going to start to look really, really bad, right? Because the line of code is going to get really, really long. It's eventually going to maybe wrap around again and again. So at some point, you just kind of say like, uh-uh, that's too many. And you start breaking it up into multiple lines like I did. Maybe reassigning the value to the variable as needed. And this is actually a good question. 

If I can pivot, [INAUDIBLE] off your question, I mean, what do people think? If we could go ahead and put everyone's hands down for a moment. Let me ask this-- is the way I've done this now, with strip and title and input all in the same line-- better than my previous approach? In Zoom you can use the Yes icon or the No icon. If you think this version is better, say Yes. If you think this previous version was better, for instance, this one here where we had everything broken out, say No. And then we'll see why in just a moment. I proposed earlier that reasonable people can disagree and that's absolutely the case. Doing it one way or the other isn't necessarily best, at least if you can justify it. Let me go back to the most recent version here. 

All right so we're seeing a lot of Yeses and a lot of Nos. Why don't we go ahead and call on one of the Yeses, if we could. Someone who's voting Yes, why do you think the current version of this code is indeed better than the previous longer version of the code? 

AUDIENCE: I think it's more readable. So I can say, this is the name variable. It gets some input and then remove the space and give it a title. And there you go. You have a hello, name. 

DAVID MALAN: Yeah, I think that's pretty reasonable. It's very readable, at least if you're in the habit, as you are in English, of reading left to right. It just kind of flows very naturally as a result. The lines is not really that long. It's certainly fitting nicely onto the screen. So I think that's a good argument. How about a counterpoint, though? Someone who voted No, if we could call on someone who thinks this is worse. 

AUDIENCE: Because it's not readable at all. It seems like it's a very long line. So I think it's better to separate. 

DAVID MALAN: Yeah. I think that's persuasive too, right? It's getting a little longer. And even though my sentence here-- what's your name-- is relatively short, you could imagine that this could get even uglier quickly if I were asking a longer question of the user, that's going to make this line of code even longer and therefore less readable. It might be less obvious to me or my colleagues that I am calling strip or that I am calling title. It might be kind of an unexpected surprise. So I think that's reasonable too. 

In short, there is no right answer here. And in fact, part of the process of getting better at programming is getting your own sense of style or working for a company where they might prescribe which way is better than the other because they just want everyone doing the same thing, even though reasonable people might disagree. Ultimately though, so long as you have what's a pretty good argument in favor of one way or the other, like ultimately, that's what's important. If you're just doing things because you don't really know which one is better, that's not great. But if and when you start to acquire opinions and if your boss, if your teacher, if your colleague, your friend, can challenge you and say, wait, why did you do it like this? They might not agree with you, but at least have an answer, and that should be sufficiently persuasive in general. 