Let's go ahead and transition then to another very common type of data in Python, in programming more generally, namely integers, otherwise known in Python as INT-- I-N-T. So just as STR, S-T-R is short for string, so is INT in Python short for integer. Well, what's an integer? Well just like in math it's a number like negative 2, negative 1, 0, 1, 2, and all the way toward negative infinity, all the way toward positive infinity. 

But there's no decimal point in an integer. It's just a number like negative 2, negative 1, 0, 1, and 2 onward. That's an INT. Of course, in the world of mathematics, there's lots of symbols that we use. And we've seen + before, although we used it for a different purpose. But Python supports these symbols and more. And Python allows you to add numbers together +, subtract numbers, multiply numbers, divide numbers. And the only one here that might look a little strange to people or unfamiliar is this percent sign, but it doesn't mean percent in this context. If you use a single percent sign in a Python program, that's actually the so-called modulo operator, the operator that allows you to take the remainder after dividing one number by another. So we'll see examples of that before long, but the first four of these are perhaps quite, quite familiar. 

Well it turns out that in Python you cannot necessarily-- you don't necessarily have to keep writing code in a file like Hello.py and then running it in a terminal window. One of the features that many people like about Python is that it supports this so-called interactive mode. Like you can start writing Python code and immediately execute each of those lines interactively, especially if you don't care about saving all of your lines of code. You just want to execute code and get back some answers. So for instance, let me go back to VS Code here and let me close Hello.py and let me click on the little triangle over here in my terminal window just to make it much bigger just temporarily for a moment. 

So I'm not creating any .py file now, I'm just going to run Python by itself at my prompt. And you'll see when I do this, I get some cryptic looking output and the date and time at which the program was last updated, and so forth. But I ultimately get three triple brackets like this. Is the interactive mode for Python. So I'm running the Python interpreter and any time I type a line of code in the interpreter, it's going to execute it immediately. I don't have to keep running Python again and again. It's as though in the human world, if you were standing next to a human who speaks some other language, and you're just having a conversation with them back and forth, it's all happening-- the translation-- immediately. 

So what might I do in interactive mode? Well I could do something like 1 + 1, Enter. That's actually code, all right? You might not think of it as code, but if a bit of arithmetic and you know numbers, and you know +, that's valid Python code. And you can use Python really as a fancy calculator. But I could do other things too. If I want to print to myself Hello, world, I can also print out that line of code there too-- Hello, world. So it's interactive in the sense that the moment you execute a line of code, boom, you see the result. 

We're generally not going to do that because at least when teaching the language, we tend to want to do things incrementally and we want you to be able to see where it is we came from. And we want to be able to try things again and again, especially if we make mistakes. But know that this is indeed a feature of Python, this so-called interactive mode. But let's focus for a moment now, not just on that interactivity, but really on the fact that Python apparently supports integers and mathematics and some of those basic operations. And let's see if we can't make maybe our own little calculator.