So let me go ahead and open up VS Code again, and I'm going to shrink down my terminal window, and I'm going to create a new file called Calculator.py. So to do that recall, I can type Code down here, and the name of the file I want to create, .py, Enter. That gives me a new tab up top. So I have already closed Hello.py. I'm now in Calculator.py. And let's just make a simple calculator that does some addition for me. But I'm going to do it in a file so that we can iterate on this and make changes for better or for worse over time. 

Let me go ahead and first declare a couple of variables. I'm going to do the mathematical thing of calling my first variable x, my second variable y, and then I'm going to give myself a third variable z = x + y. And then I'm going to go ahead and print out z. Now this program, admittedly not very exciting or interesting, in fact, it's a little less interesting than printing stuff on the screen like before with strings, but we'll build on this and see what other features exist in Python that we can leverage. So hopefully, if Python knows it's math as well as I do, when I run Python of Calculator.py, I should see hopefully that 1 + 2 = indeed 3. All right, so not that surprising and not that interesting. And honestly this isn't the most useful program because it's always going to calculate 1 + 2 = 3. Let's at least make this program, say, a little more interactive, right? 

We already know from previous examples how we can get input from the user. Let's bring back that input function. And let's do this, let me go ahead now and at the top of my code, let's change x to not be the number 1 always, let's change it to be whatever the return value is of asking the user for x. And I can use any English or human language I want here. I'm going to say, what's x? Just like I asked before, what's your name? And I'm going to do the same thing for y. I'm going to use Input again, but this time change the question to be, what's y? 

All right, at this point, I think I'm going to leave the rest of the code the same. Z = x + y And then print z but what's nice now is that I think I have a nice interactive calculator. Right, now it's not going to do 1 + 2 all the time. It's going to do whatever the user types + whatever the user types. So let's try this. Let me go ahead and run that program. All right, let's do it. 1 is going to be x, 2 is going to be y, and of course, everyone in agreement, 1 + 2 = thr-- huh. What's going on there? Either your math class misled you or I have misled you. Why don't we call on someone here to see if you can't help us reason through what the bug is, what's the mistake? Anjali, if I'm saying it right. 

AUDIENCE: I think the issue is that it's concatenating strings because you use the + operator instead of adding. 

DAVID MALAN: Perfect. So perfect intuition. We've seen that + is used a little differently in the context of strings because it concatenates, that is, it joins the two strings, and that seems to Indeed be what's happening here, even though the user typed a number. But the interesting thing here is that, when you get user input, because they're using a keyboard on their Mac or PC or their phone, it is always going to be text. It might look like a number, but by default, it's coming from the keyboard as a string-- that is, as text. And so, how do we go about resolving this if ultimately we don't want to treat those inputs as strings, we want to treat them as actual numbers? 