Well we need another function and it turns out in Python that you can convert sometimes from one type of data to another type of data, for instance, from string to INT by doing something like this. Let me go back into my code and let me change x before adding it to y to be whatever the integer version of x is, + whatever the integer version of y is. So it turns out that INT is not only a type of data in Python, it's also a function, and it's a function that if you pass in an input, like a string, so long as that string looks like a number like 1 or like 2, it will convert it to an actual number that you can perform mathematics on instead. 

So if I now go back to my terminal window and run Python-- and let me show you another trick. "Calculator" is kind of a long word. It's a little tedious to type. Notice what I can do in my terminal window, in a command line interface in general. If I start typing C-A-L for calculator, I can actually hit Tab to finish my thought. So auto-complete is possible in a terminal window like this. Type the first letter or few letters and then, boom, with Tab, it'll finish your thought for you. Or you can go back in your history like I did with the Up and Down Arrows. 

Let me go ahead and execute this. What's x? 1. What's x? 2. And there we go. Now we have a general purpose calculator that's going to support not just the addition of 1 and 2, but now any two integers that the user types. And let me now improve this, right? We've seen how we can make improvements to code and I don't know if it's going to necessarily be better, but let's try this. Do I really need the z variable? It's worth noting that I'm creating a variable called z, and then I'm immediately using it on the next line of code. Now that's not that compelling, because if you're creating a variable and then immediately using it, but never again using it, did you really need to take the time to introduce another symbol and another variable just to use it once and only once? Well, maybe not. Maybe we don't really need z in this way. 

Maybe I should go and do something like this. Maybe I should get rid of z here. Maybe I should change this to be INT up here, change this to be INT up here, doing something that's pretty interesting now. Even though it's a bit of new syntax, notice that you can nest functions, so to speak. You can put one function call that is the use of a function inside of the use of another function so that the return value of the inner function becomes the argument to or the input to the outer function. Just like in math, if you have parentheses, parentheses, parentheses, your teacher probably taught you to focus on what's inside the innermost parentheses first and then work your way out. Same thing with programming. That's what's Python is going to do. It's going to look at what's inside of the parentheses first, it's going to get the answer, and then it's going to pass the return value to the outermost function. 

So what happens on line 1 now is that the input function gets called first, then the result of that, quote unquote one becomes the input to the INT function, and same on line 2. The output of what's y becomes the input to this INT function. And now there is no z. I could just do print x + y. And because I've taken the time to convert each of those strings to an integer, I think we're OK. So let me try this, Python of Calculator.py, Enter. 1 and 2, and we're still getting 3. Not 12, or not 12, 1,2, we're indeed getting 3. And we've additionally gotten rid of the variable because we didn't necessarily need it, it seems, especially if only using it once. 

Well here too, let me put everyone's hands down for just a moment and let me ask as before-- this version now which uses INT around the invocations of input, and does not use z, is this better than the previous version? If you want to vote Yes, go ahead. Or if you prefer the old way, vote No. The old way, I'll undo all of this as we vote, instead looked like this. All right, and let me go back to now the newest version. Let's take a hand of the Yeses, someone who thinks this latest version is better. 

AUDIENCE: I think this way is better because it allows us to immediately see what the x and y variables are with integers and so we know what to expect from them. And also the print argument is more intuitive. We avoid too much clutter in the code. 

DAVID MALAN: I think those are all good reasons. It's nice and succinct. The lines of code are not very long. I don't need to know what z is because it doesn't exist. It just sees print x + y. I like that. But someone who prefers the older way where we did have z and we more explicitly passed individual variables to the INT function. 

AUDIENCE: Yeah, hi. I think that the earlier version is better because when-- I mean, if user input something else other than, let's say, I mean, let's say, they type 1 and 2, like, so it will be easier to debug. 

DAVID MALAN: This version or-- this version here or the old version? 

AUDIENCE: The old version. 

DAVID MALAN: OK, that's fair. And in fact, I'm being very careful today, as best I can, not to mess up. I have thus far only inputted integers when I'm expecting integers. And Raoul's actually pointing to something we'll come back to in the coming weeks, how do we actually handle errors? What if the user doesn't type in the number 1 or the number 2, or a number at all? What if they type in a word like cat, C-A-T? That's not a number, and I bet I can't convert it to an integer. But for today, I'm not going to focus on that. I'm just going to hope that the user cooperates. But that's not going to be the case. And so perhaps one way would set us up for more success when it comes to handling those errors. 

Now for today's purposes, which is better? Eh, I mean, I like both. And I think both of you made very valid arguments in there too, so long as you have a justification that feels pretty reasonable. I mean, that's what ultimately matters. But acquiring, again, a sense of the trade-offs here. Well, is this way better? If so, why or why not? Just understanding what those trade-offs are. But generally speaking, prioritizing readability is a very good thing. Making your code readable for someone else is a very good thing and very good for you too so that when you wake up the next morning, or you come back the next week, or the next year, you too can read your own code without having to waste time trying to remember what you did. And simplicity tends to be a good thing too-- keeping your code simple. 

So as you get more comfortable with programming, you might be tempted to try to combine an entire program into one long line. For instance, let me do just that. Technically speaking, we don't really need x in a variable. We don't really need y in a variable. We could also do this-- I could just get rid of x and y altogether. I could then now eliminate that and make it just one line of code. OK, so on some sense, you might be inclined to think, wow, that's really nice. You made it one simple line of code. I would argue this actually isn't that simple. 

Now I think I'm starting to nest too many things. I have to think about print and INT and input. I then have to notice that, OK, I've opened two parentheses, I've closed two of them. There's a +. You're making me think too much and any time you make me think, you're wasting time. And any time you complicate the look of the code like this, you're just going to increase the probability of mistakes and tactical mistakes or logical errors in your code. So if all the things we've done, this is the only one that I would argue, yes, it's one line and it's nice and compact. It's just not readable enough. I would shy away from doing this, especially since two of those function calls are getting input from the user. 

But there too, reasonable people might disagree, but that's the kind of visceral reaction you should have sometimes when code starts getting a little too complicated, a little too clever, perhaps, for its own good. 
