All right, well it's not just integers we have access to. Let me propose that we transition from integers to one more data type here, namely a float. So again, a string is a sequence of text. An INT is an integer like negative 1, 0 and 1. A float is a number with a decimal point, properly called a floating point value. And you can think of the floating point as being the decimal that might be over here or over here with some number of digits to the left or the right. Mathematically, it's a real number, a number that has a decimal point in it. So that's a third type of data that Python supports. 

Right now our calculator is somewhat naively assuming that the user is only going to type in integers, but if I want to support floating point values too, I think I can just make a couple of tweaks. So I'm going to go back to VS Code here. And instead of just converting the user's input x and y to integers on line 1 and 2, let's just make a simple change. Let's actually convert it to a float on the first line and a float on the second line here. Now I think, if I go down to my terminal window and run Python of Calculator.py, let's type in a number like 1.2 with a decimal point and 3.4 with a decimal point, and there we go. We have 4.6 as the final answer. So that wouldn't have worked before if I was only expecting integers from the user, but now that I'm expecting floating point values and accommodating it, I can actually now do floating point arithmetic as well. 

But suppose that I don't really want the final answer to be a floating point value like 4.6. I would be happy if we just round to the nearest integer. So I want to support the user typing in floating point values with decimal points, but at the end of the day, I just want to round the result to the nearest possible integer, for instance. Well it turns out that here too Python comes with some functionality built in. And in fact, if we return to this URL from earlier wherein all of the Python built-in functions are listed, there's one called "round" which does exactly as we would expect, it takes as input a number and then rounds it for us, for instance, to the nearest integer. But if we look a little closer at that documentation as we can here-- I'll provide an excerpt-- this is what the function looks like in the documentation. And recall that earlier we looked at the documentation for print and this is similar in spirit that this shows us not just the name of the function but its available parameters, that is, inputs that we can provide when using this function. But this is a little cryptic too, just like Print was, and it adds some syntax. So let's see. 

The name of this function here is of course Round and its first argument is a number. Notice this time there's no star, there's no star objects like there was for print. The Round function takes just one number as its first argument, period. That's its positional parameter. But notice this syntax. And this is a convention in programming or technology more generally, generally speaking, when you see square brackets and documentation like this, this means that you're about to see something optional. And so what this means is that if you want to specify more precisely the number of digits that you want the round function to round to, you can specify it here by adding a comma and then that number. So if we read the documentation, if you don't specify a number of digits, you just specify the number to round, it rounds to the nearest integer. But suppose you want around to the tenths place, or the hundredths place that is one or two digits after the decimal point, you could additionally pass in comma 1 or comma 2 to be more precise. 

So that's what the documentation, there is saying. Let's see if we can't then translate this to some actual code for us. So if I go back now to VS Code and I consider that I want to go ahead and round x and y, I can do this in a couple of ways. I could do round x + y, but you know, I'd actually kind of prefer to break this now out into two lines. I don't have to, and reasonable people here might disagree, but I'd like to revert to a scenario where I'm printing z, so that I can just a little more clearly to myself, to others, say z = the rounded result of x + y. It's not necessarily the better way to do it, but I'm a little more comfortable with breaking out my thoughts one at a time, especially if I want to start commenting each of these chunks of code. 

All right, let me go down to my terminal window now and run Python of Calculator.py. What's x? Let's do 1.2 again. Then let's do 3.4. And now it was previously 4.6, but now it's been rounded up to the nearest integer, which of course is going to be 5. All right, what if I wanted to change this a little further? What if I wanted to support maybe really big numbers, big numbers, irrespective of rounding, let's just do something like this. Let me go ahead and run Python of Calculator.py again and let me just add 999 + 1. And notice, I don't have to type decimal points, even though I'm converting to float, my program will just allow me to type decimal points, but I don't need to oblige. The answer of course here should be, and is in fact, 1,000, whether or not we round. So that's just arithmetic with integers here. 