

But in the US, we tend to format long numbers by putting commas after or before every triple of digits. Other countries flip it and they use periods and commas instead. That's a system setting. You can change that on your own Mac or PC or device for Python or any language, but for me, I'm using the US approach here, which is periods for decimal points and commas for separators. What if I wanted this to be outputted as 1,000? Just to make it a little more clear that it's 1,000 and not something like 100. That's even more useful when it's like one million-- 1,000,000. Wouldn't it be nice if we could automatically output those numbers as well? Well, it turns out that we can. There is a way using Python to actually specify that we want to include commas like this. And here we have an opportunity to bring back our old friend, the F string. 

First, let me do something that's not that productive. First let me do this. Let me print out the value of z, but wait a minute. I can't just say "z" because that's literally going to print z on the screen. So let me wrap it with those curly braces like I did before, but that too was not enough. I literally needed to add an F at the beginning of my string to tell Python that this is an F string, a format string. That now is going to print out, not very interestingly, just the value of z itself. So I'm going to great lengths just to print z when really I could have just passed z as the sole argument. 

But just to ensure that I haven't broken it, let's do this again. 999 + 1, Enter. OK, it's still 1,000. So I didn't make anything worse. But notice-- and this syntax is unfortunately a bit cryptic-- notice that I can actually do this. I can put a colon after the z and I can put a comma thereafter. This looks very cryptic, admittedly, and even I have to constantly look things like this up in the documentation to remember the syntax. But here, let me run it again. Python of Calculator.py, 999 1 and now notice that the number has been automatically formatted for me. If I were in a different country or locale, I could absolutely override this to use periods instead of commas or vise versa. But in this case here, it's just happening for me automatically. 

So there too we see a hint of what it means to really format a string. There's even more power-- more powerful capabilities built into that. All right, let me pause here to see if there's any questions now on floats, on rounding, or on this use of F strings. 

AUDIENCE: Yes, so I have a question. So when using floats, is there like a cap to how many decimal points it can have? 

DAVID MALAN: A really good question. So floats, yes, and this is a problem we'll revisit before long. Floats cannot represent numbers infinitely precisely. In a nutshell, because computers only have so much memory. They only have a finite amount of memory. You and I only have a finite amount of hardware inside of the computer, so at some point, they're going to have to round. Right now I'm rounding automatically. Effectively computers will eventually have to do that for us, but we'll see that as a fundamental problem before long. 