

Allow me to turn back just for a few final examples on float before we introduce a few final examples that allow us not just to use functions, but to make our own. Let me propose that we also try our hands at a bit of division here. Let me propose that we modify this calculator now to still take a couple of floats, but let's now just do something a little simpler than-- a little different from this, just doing x divided by y. And let me go ahead and get rid of my format string and just keep it simple for now, printing out z instead. And what are we going to see here? Well just some simple division. So Python of Calculator.py, let's do something like 2 divided by 3, and of course I get 0.66666. And to Ethan's question a moment ago, it does seem to be finite. It's not rounding in a weird way here, but I only seem to see so many digits. That's an inevitability of using a float in this way. By contrast, just so you know, integers nowadays in Python can be as big as you want them to be. Unlike other languages, there is no upper bound on how big an INT can be now in Python, but there is a bound on just how precise a floating point value can be. 

All right, now that I've got some simple division working here, let's go ahead and round this. It would be nice to round this really long number 0.6666666 and so forth to maybe just two decimal places. We've seen how to do this with round, though, at least in its documentation. Let's just round this not to the nearest INT, by passing in just x divided by y, which is one argument, once the math is done inside of the parentheses, I don't want to pass in just one argument. I want to pass in two so that I can specify n digits, number of digits, which you'll recall was the second parameter for round. 

Let me go ahead and run Python of Calculator.py. I'll do the same thing-- 2 and then 3, 0.67. So here too we see a way of rounding now, not just to a nearest integer, but to a nearest number of digits. But there's another way to do this here. And in fact, this evokes our F string example again. Let me go ahead and change this. Suppose that you didn't remember the round function or, for some reason, you didn't want to use it. You instead want to just use a format string. Well, let's go there. 

Let me do "z" but let me surround it with those curly braces. Let me add the F at the beginning, and again, this is not interesting yet. This is just going to print out z, but I'm adding a lot more complexity to turn it into an F string. But notice I can do something else after my variable name, after the colon. If this were going to be a big integer, I might want to use a comma like before to separate each triple of numbers with commas. But I don't. I'm going to use a different sequence of characters. I'm going to say 0.2F and this too is one of these very cryptic things I have to constantly look up because I forget if I don't use it that often. So don't be intimidated if this looks especially weird, but this is, according to the documentation, the way you specify using an F string how many digits you want to print. 

So let me run this version of the calculator. Type in 2 and then 3, we get the exact same thing. But again, this is just consistent with my claim that in programming we can so very often solve the same problem in multiple ways. This is just now the F string approach to that very same problem. All right, which one is better? It depends. In this case, they're pretty equivalent. You can imagine, though, it being useful to use a function sometimes so that you can pass in an argument like n digits as that second argument, or you can imagine just deciding in advance that you want 0.2 and then writing it like this.