Let's transition now from focusing on strings and on integers and on floats to focusing now on functions themselves. We began today by focusing on how you can use functions that come with Python. But wouldn't it be nice if you could invent your own functions, especially if, to our point earlier, you find yourself solving the same kind of problem again and again? It's nice that Python comes with the print function because it's really useful to be able to print things on the screen, but wouldn't it be nice if you could print specific things on the screen by just calling your own function? 

Well let me propose that we do this. Let me go back to VS Code here and let me propose that we go back to Hello.py. I'm going to reopen Hello.py where we left it before and I'm going to go ahead now and propose that we consider how we can start improving this further by making our own function. I have written so many programs today that just say Hello and each time I'm using print. But wouldn't it have been nice if, from the beginning of today, we could just call a function called Hello that just says Hello for us? Now the authors of Python years ago didn't think that we need a special function just to say Hello, but I would like that to exist. I'm saying Hello so many times, I just want to be able to call a function Hello. 

So I'm going to start from scratch here. I'm going to delete all of my code from earlier and I'm going to pretend for the moment that a function called Hello exists. And I'm going to do just as I did before. I'm going to get the user's name with the input function, asking what's your name, question mark. And now I'm going to call a function Hello and then I'm going to print out the user's name. Now I will admit, Hello doesn't exist, so bad things are about to happen, but let's see what. 

Let me go down to my terminal window. Let me run Python of Hello.py. I think the first line is going to be OK because that worked before. And indeed, it's prompting me for my name. So let me type in David. The second line of code is apparently calling a function that looks like it's called Hello, because why is it a function? It has a parenthesis and a closed parenthesis immediately after it. And that's what every function we've used has looked like. But Python is not going to recognize this one. When I hit Enter now, I get a name error. Name "Hello" is not defined, did you mean Help? I didn't, although it's opportune that's what I need at this point is some help, but I am encountering this error because why? The function just doesn't exist. So how do I make this function exist? Well I need to create it myself using this key word, DEF, DEF for define. So here too, just as STR is short for string and INT is short for integer, DEF is short for define. 

If and when you want to define, create, invent your own functions, you can do so using now this keyword in Python. So let me go back to my code here and let me propose that we define this perhaps in this way. At the very top of my file, I'm going to first take a moment to define a function called Hello using DEF Hello, open parenthesis, close parenthesis, colon. What this means now is that Python is going to treat every line of code that I indent underneath this one as the meaning of this new function, Hello. So DEF is important as is the space. I get to choose the name of the function and I'm choosing to call it Hello. The parentheses with nothing inside means that this function at the moment is not going to take any inputs, no arguments there too. The colon means, stay tuned for some indentation. Everything that's indented beneath this line of code is going to be part of this function. It's going to be a super short function-- one line of code-- it's just going to print out "Hello." 

But now on lines 1 and 2, I have invented my own function Hello. Notice these dots that have now magically appeared here. This is just a setting of my text editor, VS Code in this case, that's just making super explicit to me that I've hit the space bar four times, or equivalently the Tab key once, which is converted automatically to four spaces. Generally speaking, I'm going to need to make sure that all of my indented code lines up now so that Python knows that it's all part of the same thing. But it's easy in this case because it's just a single line. 

But now, thanks to lines 1 and 2, the function Hello will absolutely exist when I'm ready to use it on line 6. So let me go down to my terminal window and run Python of Hello.py, Enter. Here comes my name again. And now when I hit Enter, I now see Hello, David. All right, we've kind of regressed though, right? This is not nearly as pretty as it once was. I think we can probably do better than this by improving things further. Why don't we consider, though, how we might say parameterize this same function? That is to say, can we customize Hello to maybe take the user's name as input so that we can say, not only Hello, but the person's name all on one line, all in one breath? Well I think we can do this. Let me propose that we do this as follows. 

Let me go ahead and up in my code, let me inside of these parentheses, let me come up with my own parameter name. I have complete choice here and I'm going to say that the name of my parameter will be the word To. Why? Because I want my function to sound like the verb it represents-- Hello. But who do you want to say Hello to? Well I'm going to call my parameter for this function To, just because in English, it kind of sounds nice to me. Hello To, who do you want to say Hello to? That's why I'm calling this parameter To instead of something simpler like x or y or z. 

All right, well what do I want to do with the word To? Well I can do a couple of different things. We've seen like so many different ways to implement Hello. Let me just add a comma there for grammar's sake. And then let me put the word To after that as the second argument to the function Hello. There's other ways we can do this and we've seen so many, but this one looks a little clear to me, I'll say. What's going to happen next? Well I don't think I need this extra print line here. I think what I'm going to do is this, I'm going to go ahead here and print out not the person's name manually, I'm going to instead say, Hello parentheses name. 

So what am I now doing? On lines 1 and 2 I'm defining my very own function called Hello, but this time that function has been designed to take a parameter, a single parameter, as input. And I'm using the value of that parameter which I called To to plug into print so that I see not only Hello but also that person's name. What am I doing on line 5? Same as always, I'm just getting the user's name. Line 6, I'm not only calling Hello, I'm passing as input the name variable as an argument so that that's what gets passed into Hello. And what's happening here is essentially this-- even though the variable is called Name here, when the function itself is called, the computer assumes that same value is now called To. So Name is essentially copied to another variable called To so that in the context of Hello, I can say Hello to that variable instead. And we'll see in a moment what happens if we don't keep those straight. 

Let me go ahead and run Python of Hello.py, Enter. What's your name? And now I'm crossing my fingers. Enter. There we go. We're back in business, but now I have my own custom function called Hello that's allowing me to say Hello to a specific person. And here's where now things can get really fancy. What if you wanted your Hello function to say Hello to someone specific, but, you know what, if you don't know who you want to say Hello to, you want to say Hello to the whole world, you can give parameters default values. We've seen that. Recall that with print there was a default value for SEP, for the separator. There was a default value for END, the line ending. We can do that too, and here's the syntax. 

If you want the value of this parameter by default, if not provided by the programmer, to be equal to "world," you literally do that in the same line you're defining the function. And I'll admit, it's starting to look more cryptic, but I'm still just defining a function called Hello, it takes a parameter called To, but I'm assigning it with the equal sign a default value of "world," just in case the programmer doesn't call Hello with an argument. And we can see this here. Let me change my code to use Hello in two ways. On line 5, I'm going to very simply call Hello, no arguments. Then on line 6, I'm going to get the name. Line 7, I'm going to call Hello with an argument. So you'll see Hello now being used in two ways. 

Let me go ahead and run Python of Hello.py. I'll type in my name. Oh, interesting. Notice I already see Hello, world, but that's expected because line 5 happens before line 6, but once I type my name, now the program is going to be a little more polite and say hello to me personally. So there too, we see with relatively simple but new syntax how you can implement functionality very similar in spirit to what the print function gave us automatically. Now you have control over doing that yourself. 

But let me now make this point too. One of the whole points of defining your own functions is one, just to avoid having to repeat yourself again and again. You don't have to actually keep reinventing the wheel and keep using the print function again, and again, and again, if you just want to say Hello. Wouldn't it be nice now if I could move this code that I wrote for defining the Hello function, and just to be dramatic, I'm going to hit Enter a whole lot of times, 50 lines down, and put my definition of Hello way further down in this file. Why? Well, just for in the spirit of out of sight, out of mind, because if I now rewind to the start of my program, now you can take for granted that, oh, Hello is a function. Why? Because it's there on line 1 and it has an open parenthesis and a closed parenthesis, which, up until now has meant, call this function. And then on line 2 we're getting a variable from the user by typing in their name and then we're calling Hello, passing in that value. 

Well at this point, I can just take for granted that Hello exists, even if it's way down further in the file or, as we'll see in future weeks, even if it's in a different file altogether. But there's a problem here. And let me go ahead and run this version of Hello.py. Notice that as soon as I run the interpreter, Python of Hello.py, I see a name error, name Hello is not defined. Again, did you mean Help? Well, again, fitting. I do need some help here, but I didn't mean to call the function Help. The problem here, though, is that Python is just taking me literally. I have defined my function Hello all the way down here, but I'm trying to use it way up here. And that's not allowed. Python's interpreter is going to take you literally and if you use a function, it must already exist by the time you are calling it. 

So how do I fix this? Well, apparently I can't do that. I have to define any functions I want at the very top of my file, but that too could get me into a bit of trouble eventually because if I constantly have to define a function above where I want to use it, you're kind of writing code in reverse, you're constantly writing functions up here, up here, up here, as opposed to writing your code logically, top to bottom. So let me fix this in a more standard way, which is to do this. Generally speaking, you do want to put the main part of your code at the top of your file. And in fact, I'm going to go so far as to define my function, called Main. It's not a requirement, but it's in data convention, and this just connotes to the reader that this is the main part of my program. 

I'm going to get rid of my empty Hello call now and only pass in one version with Hello, name. And then down here, a couple of lines further down, I'll actually define my Hello function. Unfortunately, now that I've reordered the functions in this way, by putting the main part of my code at the top and Hello at the bottom so that my logic kind of flows top to bottom, if I go ahead and run Python of Hello.py, Enter. Nothing whatsoever happens. If I do it again, nothing whatsoever happens. Well, why in the world is this? Well, just because I've defined a function called Main and I've defined a function called Hello, doesn't mean that I've actually called-- that is used-- either of them. 

Yes, I'm using Hello inside of Main, but no one is telling Python to actually use or call Main. So in order to tidy this up, the last thing I need to do in this file, it seems, is actually call my main function. And, in fact, by calling my main function in this way, it gets me out of trouble because now I'm defining Main first but I'm not calling Hello yet. I'm defining Hello next, but I'm not calling Hello next. I only at the very end of this file call Main which has the effect of running this code up here, which has the effect of running this code down here, and it allows me therefore to organize my file and order my functions in any way I want, including Main at the very top, and solving ultimately that problem of Python not knowing what's going on. 