Now it's important to note that I defined my function Hello as taking an argument To and then I passed into that function the value of the variable that I wanted to say Hello to, that is the variable called Name. Because suppose I had done something a little bit differently. Suppose that I hadn't defined Hello is taking an argument, so I just remove mention of To and its default value "world." And I go back up to my main function and I just call Hello itself without passing in any arguments. And now let me go ahead and make my one more change, one more mistake technically, let me go ahead and just try to naively print out the value of Name in the Hello function. So now to be clear, in my main function on line 2, I'm defining my variable called Name and assigning it the return value of the input function from the user. I'm then just calling Hello. 

In my Hello function, which now no longer takes any arguments, I am calling print, passing in Hello comma, and then immediately passing in Name, the variable into which I got the user's input. But the catch is that name exists now only in Main. And so watch what happens when I try to run this version of the program with Python Hello.py. I hit Enter. I'm prompted for my name, D-A-V-I-D, Enter. And, argh! A name error. Name "Name" is not defined. 

So it turns out that this is actually an issue of what's called scope. Scope refers to a variable only existing in the context in which you defined it. So insofar as I define this variable, Name in my main function, I can only use that variable in my name function. I can't use it as I've tried to here in my Hello function. It doesn't exist in that so-called scope. And so this is why now, if I rewind and undo all of those changes, you'll see that I'm deliberately passing Main from my main function into my Hello function. And now in the Hello function, it technically has a different name. It's called To in that context, but that's fine. It's completely up to each individual function to name its own variables or name its own arguments, but this is a way now that I'm handing to the Hello function the value of that variable so it can be printed by Hello as well. 

And there's one final flourish we can add here. Now that we've implemented Hello, you'll notice that Hello only has a so-called side effect. It only prints out something to the screen.