Well, what if I also want my function to not have a side effect, per se, but actually hand me back a value? Recall that the input function returns a value, the string that the user typed in. Recall that the INT function returns a value. The float function returns a value that was passed into it. Well you can use one final keyword here, literally Return to return a value explicitly yourself. In fact, let me go back to VS Code here, and I think we'll return our attention to Calculator.py and see if we can't implement one other version of Calculator.py that actually has our own function that even returns a value. 

So I'm going to go ahead and open up calculator.py and I think this time I'm going to throw everything away as before, and I'm just going to start practicing what we're preaching here. Define a function called Main which is now going to be the main part of my function. Let's go ahead and now declare a variable called x, and assign it to the converted version of the user's input after asking them, what's x? So again, a line of code quite like we've done before. And suppose now that what I want to do is square this value. I want to take the number that the user has typed in and raise it to the power of 2. So 2 squared would be 4. 3 squared would be 9. 4 squared would be 16, and so forth. 

Well how do I go about implementing a function literally called Square which actually doesn't come with Python built-in? Well, let me assume for the moment that it does exist, and let me say something like this-- let me go ahead and say that printing, how about x squared is comma square of x. So what have I done? I've defined a function called Main and I've implemented two lines. The first of these lines prompts the user for a value x and converts it to an INT and stores it in a variable called x. On line 3, I then say x squared is and then I pass a second argument to the print function, whatever the return value is of a square function. But squared doesn't exist and I'll show you this here, if I now call Main at the bottom and I run Python of Calculator.py, I'll see that x is 2 and then I see a whole bunch of errors, a name error, name Square is not defined. 

So this isn't a typo here, it's just the function doesn't exist. But I think I can make it exist here. Let me go ahead and define another function called Square. This one's going to take in a number and I'm going to call it generically n, as many a programmer would, just to represent any old number. And then what do I want to do in order to square n? Well a number squared is really just itself times itself, so I'm going to do this-- n times n. But it's not enough just to do the math yourself, n times n. You're going to have to return the actual value n times n and that's our new keyword here. When I now do this, watch what happens. Python of Calculator.py, Enter. X say shall be 2, x squared is 4. Let me go ahead now and say x is now 3. X squared is now 9. 

So I've implemented my very own function that returns the square of a value and because I'm using the return keyword, that ensures that I can pass the return value of this, just like the return value of input or INT or float, to another function, like print instead. And here too there's going to be so many ways to solve this same problem. I can actually raise n to the power of 2. We've not seen this syntax before, but if you use two asterisks like this, two stars, that raises the thing on the left to the power on the right. Or it turns out there is in Python a function called POW for raising something to the power that takes two arguments, the first of which is the number, the second of which is the exponent. So there too, there's just so many ways to actually solve that same problem as well. 