So let's go ahead and do this. Let's start by writing a program very procedurally by opening up VS Code here. I'm going to go ahead and create a program called student.py. And in this program, I want to do something relatively simple initially, as we might have done some weeks ago now, where I just ask a user for their name and, maybe in the context of the Harry Potter universe, their house, and just print out where that student is from. And let's gradually enhance this program by adding more and more features to it and see if we don't stumble upon problems that, up until now, we might not have had very elegant, well-designed solutions to. But if we introduce, explicitly, object-oriented programming as a programming technique, I bet we can clean up our code and set the stage for writing even more sophisticated programs, longer programs down the line. So in student.py, let me go ahead and do a name variable, setting it equal to the return value of input, and just prompt the user for their name like this. And then let me go ahead and do the same for a house variable and prompt the user for their house, using input like this. And let's do something super simple now. Let's just go ahead and print out an f string that says something like name from house, just so that I can confirm that the contents of these variables are indeed as I expect. I'm not going to do any error checking or trimming or anything like that for now. I'm really just going to spit back out whatever the user just typed in. All right, let me go ahead and run Python of student.py. Let's use our go-to, like Harry, as in Harry Potter, from Gryffindor. And when I hit Enter, now let's see if I see that Harry from Gryffindor is indeed the case. All right, so I think we have a working program at this point, but let's now introduce some of those lessons learned way back from week zero where we started writing our own functions, not necessarily because it solves the problem more correctly-- I daresay this is correct as is. But it begins to give us building blocks that we can extend so as to solve more complicated programs. So let me go back up to student.py, and let's go ahead now and do this. Let's put the entire logic I just wrote inside of our typical method called main, and let me indent those three lines so that at least they're now combined into one main method. But instead of using input on line 2 an input on line 3, don't we go ahead and assume, for the moment, that we've got some function called get_name in the world, and let's go ahead and assume we've got another function like get_house in the world that don't take parameters. But their purpose in life is, by their name, going to be to get the user's name and to get their users house, respectively. And then I'm going to print out the exact same f string as before. I, of course, need to implement these functions now. So let me go lower in my file and define a function called get_name. Nothing in these parentheses because it's not going to take a parameter. And I'm going to go ahead and do something like name equals input ("Name"), just like before, and then I'm going to go ahead and return name. So it's a super simple function, but it's an abstraction. I now have a function called get_name whose implementation details I don't have to care about anymore. I just know that the function exists. And I can tighten this up, in fact, . Don't really need a name variable on line 8 if I'm immediately going to return that same name variable on line 9. So let me just tighten this up a little bit even though it doesn't change the functionality and just immediately return the return value of the inputs function call here. Let's do something very similar now for get_house, which will similarly take no arguments. I'm going to go ahead and return the return value of input, this time prompting the user for their house. And I need one final detail. At the very bottom, let's continue our habit of doing if the name of this file equals, equals, quote, unquote, main, then let's go ahead and actually call main and recall that we have that in place so that, if this eventually becomes part of a module, a library of sorts, I don't accidentally call main blindly. I only do it if I mean to run main from the command line on this file. All right, so if I didn't make any mistakes here, let me go ahead and, in my terminal window, again, run Python of student.py, Enter. Let's type in Harry, Enter. Let's type in Gryffindor, Enter. And we're set. Harry from Gryffindor seems to still be working. So we haven't really solved the problem any more correctly, but I've laid the foundation to maybe now do some more interesting things because I've had these building blocks in place. But let me propose that we could be doing this a little bit differently. get_name, get_house is fine. But at the end of the day, I'm really trying to get a student from the user. I want their name and their house, not just one or the other. So maybe it would be a little cleaner still to define a function called get_student and let get_student do all of this work for us. Now, theoretically, get_student could call get_name and could call get_house. But because these functions are so short, I think I'm OK with just defining one function, called get_student, that similarly won't take any arguments. But it's going to do two things. It's going to get the students name, by prompting them with input as before. And it's going to get the student's house, by also prompting them as before. Now, hmm. I want to return the student, but I think I might have painted myself into a corner here because I now have two variables-- name and house. And yet, up until now, we've pretty much returned one or the other. We've returned one value. So any suggestions for how we can perhaps solve this problem that I just created for myself, whereby I want to return, really, a student, but I currently have a name variable and a house variable. I'd minimally like to return both of those. AUDIENCE: I believe that, we can return a dictionary, includes the name and the house. DAVID J. MALAN: Yeah, so we absolutely could return a dictionary-- a dict object in Python, whereby maybe one key is name; one key is house; and the values thereof are exactly the values of these variables. So we could totally do that. I worry that that might be getting a little complicated. I wonder if there's a simpler way instead. Any other instincts-- even if you're not sure it would work? AUDIENCE: Return both name and house? DAVID J. MALAN: Return both name and house. I like the sound of that. It sounds simple. I don't have to figure out what a dictionary is going to look like. And in fact, this, too, would be a valid approach, even if you've not seen this before. It turns out, in Python, that you can return multiple values, but that's a bit of a white lie. Or we could take Muhammad's approach of actually returning a dictionary and putting multiple keys therein. So here, again, we have yet another example of how you can solve the same problem in at least two ways, and I daresay we're about to see even more. So one way you could solve this problem, whereby you want to return multiple values, would be to do something like this. I could go ahead and literally return not just name, but I could put a comma and also return house. This is not necessarily something you can do in other languages if you have programmed in other languages before. It depends on the language. But it looks like, thanks to this comma, maybe I can, in fact, return two values as [INAUDIBLE] proposed. Well, if I'm returning to values in this way on line 10, how do I get both values at the same time? Well, there's a couple of ways. Let me go up to my main function. I know, minimally, I'm going to have to change the get_name and get_house to get_student. But what am I going to store the return value in? I think I could actually do this. And we have seen this technique before, where you can unpack, so to speak, sequences of values that are coming back. And indeed, consider this to be exactly that. name, house is some kind of sequence that I'm returning of values-- name, house. So if I want to unpack those and store the return values in two separate variables, I can, in fact, use the commas on the left-hand side of my assignment operator, the equal sign, to do just that. Now, to be clear, I don't need to call these variables name and house here. I could simplify this and use just n here and h here, and then I could return just n and h. But I would argue that's not very clear to the reader as to what's going on. So I think, in this case, even though it's a coincidence that I've used the same variable names in get_student and get_name, and in main, it's a little more readable to someone like me. So I'm going to leave it as is. Well, let's go ahead and see, now, if this works. Let me clear my screen down here and run Python of student.py, Enter. Let's again type in Harry. Let's again type in Gryffindor, Enter. And voila, we still see that Harry is from Gryffindor. But what are we actually doing here? What are we actually doing by returning this value? Well, it turns out that what we've just done is use a tuple. A tuple is another type of data in Python that's a collection of values-- x, y or x, y, z. It's similar in spirit to a list, in that sense, but it's immutable. It's not mutable. Now, what does that mean? A list, as we've seen it before, is a data structure in Python that you can change the values of. You can go into bracket 0 for the first location and change the value there. You can go to bracket 1, bracket 2, bracket 3 and actually change the values in lists. But if you have no intention of changing the values of variables and you want to return, effectively, multiple values, you don't have to even return it as a list. You can return it as a tuple instead, just by using a comma. And it turns out we can make explicit that-- here's the white lie. I'm not actually returning to values per se. Whenever you use a comma in this way on line 9, you're actually returning one value, which is a tuple. Inside of that tuple now are two values. So it's similar in spirit to returning one list with two thing Here I'm returning one tuple with two things. And the mere fact that I've used a comma and nothing else tells Python that I indeed want to return a tuple. But there's more explicit syntax that we can use instead. I can actually-- more verbosely-- put explicit parentheses around the values of this tuple just to make more clear to me, to the reader that this isn't two values per se. This is one value with two things inside of it. And what I can actually do then, too, is-- I don't have to unpack this up here, so to speak. I can actually go up here and maybe give a more apt name, like student, and I can name the value, or rather name the variable in which I'm storing the return value of get_student as, quote, unquote, "student." So maybe this is a little better design now because I'm sort of abstracting away what a student is. It's implemented at the moment as a tuple with two values. But at least, now I have a variable called what I mean, a student. But there's going to be a catch. On line 3, I still want to print out that student's name and their house. But I don't have a name variable anymore, and I don't have a house. And I also don't have a dictionary, as was proposed earlier, so I can't even go at those keys by name. But what a tuple is-- it's very similar in spirit to a list, but it is indeed just immutable. And what I mean by that is I can still index into it numerically by saying student [0] for the item in the first location in that tuple. And then over here, instead of house, I can say student [1]. student [1] is going to give me the second location in that tuple. Let me go ahead and clear my terminal window. Again, run Python of student.py. Let's type in Harry. Let's type in Gryffindor, Enter, and we still have some working code. Let me pause here now and see if there are any questions on this technique of returning a tuple and indexing into it in this way. AUDIENCE: I guess, what's an actual use case where you would use a tuple versus a list or something else that's similar? DAVID J. MALAN: It's a really good question. When would you use a tuple versus a list? When you want to program defensively, or, in general, when you know that the values in this variable shouldn't change, so why would you use a data type that allows them to be changed? It just invites mistakes, bugs down the line, either by you or colleagues who are interacting with your code. So tuple is just another way where you can increase the probability of correctness by just not letting anyone, yourself included, change the contents therein. So it's just another tool in your toolkit. But let's make clear, then, what I mean by "immutable." Again, I claim that "immutable" means that you cannot change the value. Well, let's go ahead and try to do this. Let me go ahead and run this program once more as is-- Python of student.py. Let me go ahead and type in, for instance-- how about Padma's name? And I'm going to go ahead and say that Padma is in Gryffindor as in the movies. And we see-- Padma from Gryffindor. But technically, I went down this rabbit hole in looking at Harry Potter more closely. Technically, in the books, Padma, I believe, was from Ravenclaw. So this is actually a mistake or an inconsistency between the movies and the books. Let's see if we can't fix this inconsistency in our code. So how about we do this? If the student's name that's inputted equals Padma, why don't we override whatever the house is and change it to be properly Gryffindor. Let me go ahead and do if student-- now, if I want to get at Padma's name, I'm going to have to do student [0]. I have to know what location the name is in in this tuple. But if that value equals equals Padma, let's go ahead with this if statement and make a change. Let's change the student's [1] value. So the second value, if we're zero indexing-- let's change it to be another house in the world of Harry Potter called Ravenclaw. So I'm just fixing maybe the user's input. They watched the movie so they type in Padma Gryffindor, but, mm-mm, in the books, it was Padma from Ravenclaw. All right, let me go ahead and go down to my terminal window, clear my terminal, and do Python of student.py, Enter. I'm going to do Harry as well as Gryffindor, just to demonstrate that that is still working as intended. Let me clear my screen again, though, and run Python of student.py on Padma, and I'll put her, too, in Gryffindor, as in the movies, and hit Enter. And now I just see a big mess of errors on the screen. Some kind of exception has been thrown. And indeed, a type error has happened. I'm using a data type wherein there's an error, and what is that error? Well, 'tuple' object does not support item assignment. It's a little arcanely expressed-- that is, it's not really very user friendly. But if you think about what those words mean, 'tuple" object does not support item assignment. So assignment is copying from right to left. So somehow, that's invalid. And here is a manifestation of the immutability of tuples. You cannot change location 0 or 1 or anything inside. That is a feature. That is the design of a tuple. So if I want to override that, I think I'm going to have to use a different type of data that we've used before-- namely a list, and that's fine. If you want to enable yourself and colleagues using your code to change the contents of that container, well, we can go ahead and return not a tuple using explicit parentheses or no parentheses, just the comma, but I can use square brackets. And if I'm using square brackets on the left and the right, this is indeed explicitly a list. Same idea, but it's mutable. That is to say you can change the contents of a list. So making no other changes, just returning a list with square brackets instead of a tuple with parentheses or just the comma. Let me go ahead now and run Python of student.py, Enter. Let me type in Harry and Gryffindor again. That's still working. Good to see. Let me run this once more and type in Padma and Gryffindor, as in the movies, but no, now we've corrected it to be Padma from Ravenclaw, as in the books instead. Any questions now on tuples versus lists or this idea of immutability versus mutability. AUDIENCE: Can we use a nested tuple in Python, like a nest list? DAVID J. MALAN: Absolutely. You can have not only nested lists in Python, where one of the elements in a list could be another list-- so you have some square brackets out here; you might have some other square brackets inside. You can absolutely do the same with a tuple as well. There is no constraint on the types of values you can put in there. We've not had occasion to do that in this case. I'm just returning a simple tuple with two elements. But yes, you could absolutely do that, too. Other questions on tuples versus lists? AUDIENCE: OK, for example, when I see the square brackets, is it mainly used for the list? DAVID J. MALAN: Oh, a really good question. Sort of. So when you create a value like a list, you use square brackets, and that would indeed be a visual indicator that this is definitely a list. If you instead see parentheses, that's a visual indicator, when creating a value, that it's definitely a tuple. However, somewhat confusingly, both lists and tuples use square brackets when you access the contents of them. When you index into them at location 0 or location 1 you always use square brackets. So that's the distinction there. Good question.