Allow me to propose now, if I may, that we solve this problem yet another way, and let's see if we're either making things better or for worse than us. Recall that dictionaries, or dict objects, also exist in Python. And a dictionary is this collection of keys and values. And the upside, in particular, of a dictionary is that they have better semantics. You don't just have to assume that a name is always going to be at location 0; house is always going to be at location 1. That's the kind of thing, especially if you had three, four, or more values-- eventually you or someone is going to get confused and forget what the order is and you're going to write buggy code. So a dictionary is a little more powerful in that you can semantically associate keys, little descriptions, with the values-- those keys and those values, respectively. So let me go ahead and do this, and we can do this in a few different ways. But let me propose that we focus on get_student here . And let's go ahead and do this. Let me go ahead and delete the implementation of get_student as is. Let me create a student variable and initialize it to an empty dictionary. And I can do that with just two curly braces here. And then let me go ahead and set two keys inside of that dictionary. Inside of the student, there will be, quote unquote, a "name" key, and the value of that is going to be whatever the return value of input is when I prompt the user for their name. And then the "house" key, inside of that same student dictionary, is going to be the return value of whatever the user types in for their house. , And lastly I'm going to go ahead and return student. So now I am literally returning one thing, still, but this time, it's a dict rather than a tuple, rather than a list. But there are still two things in it, technically four things if you count the keys and the values. But there's two key value pairs. Now, my code up here is going to have to change a little bit. And let's simplify this and remove, for instance, now the Padma if statement just to focus on what's changing at hand. And let me go ahead now and leave line 2 alone. I'm still going to have a student variable that gets assigned the return value of get_student. But what I want to do here now is actually access the keys inside of that dictionary-- not by numeric index, which was for tuples and lists-- 0 and 1, but by way of the keys. Now, normally, I might be in the habit, as I personally am, of using double quotes-- quote, unquote, "name" inside of there and quote, unquote, "house" inside of there. But before I even run this code and show you a mistake-- see an error on the screen, does anyone want to call out what I have done wrong here? This is just an f string. I just want to print out the value of the name key, the value of the house key in this dictionary. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]  DAVID J. MALAN: Your audio was a little garbled for us. But I think I heard double quotes and single quotes. So I'm going to assume that, indeed, you've identified precisely the issue. I'm just going to confuse Python right now. Even though this is an f string inside of double quotes, prefixed with an f, I can't actually use my double quotes inside my double quotes because that's going to potentially confuse Python. If I run this program now, Python of student.py and hit Enter, I get a syntax error. So the program didn't even run fully. It just couldn't be understood because it got confused by those double quotes. So the simplest fix here would indeed just be to use not double quotes but single quotes around the keys, or conversely, flip the double quotes on the outside to single quotes, then use double quotes in the inside. You just want to be consistent. So a subtle detail, but again, this is now specific to dictionary syntax. This isn't fundamental to how we're solving this current problem at hand. Well, let's go ahead and try this. Let me go ahead now and run Python of student.py. Let's go ahead and type in Harry. Let's type in Gryffindor. And hopefully, Harry is back from Gryffindor. No syntax errors. No other errors. I think I'm back in business here. And what I do like to be clear about using a dictionary is that it's allowing me just better semantics. And again, I don't have to remember, memorize, document that 0 is name; 1 is house. Instead, "name" is name and "house" is house. It's just a little clearer, a little more expressive. So that's generally a good thing, especially if we stored more data about students than just their name and their house-- if you had three fields, four, five, 10 different fields-- no one's going to want to remember or be able to remember forever which is zero which is 1, which is 2, and so forth. Better to introduce names, like "name" and "house" in this case. But let me tighten this up further. I'm typically in the habit of not introducing variables unnecessarily, unless they make the code more readable. And an alternative way to format the same code would be this. Strictly speaking, I don't need to create an empty dictionary, then add one key to it, then add a second key to it, and then return that dictionary. I can actually consolidate this all into one statement, if you will. Let me go ahead and do this. Let me go ahead and say name equals inputs return value, house equals inputs return value, and then, instead of returning any variable name student, which I'm going to propose doesn't need to exist anymore, let me just create and return the dictionary all at once. Let me do, quote, unquote, "name" in lowercase here, and then the variable. It's storing the user's name. Then, quote, unquote, "house," as my second key, the value of which is going to be house, the variable. Now, is this better? Maybe, maybe not. Maybe the first way was a little more readable, and that's totally fine to create variables if they improve the readability of your code. But just know that you can also create and return a dictionary on the fly like this, so to speak, all in one line, and I think it's arguably pretty reasonable in this case. Why? It's just pretty short. I probably wouldn't do this if it got longer and longer and longer. I might minimally then start moving my key value pairs to separate lines. But this would just be a slightly more compact way of doing this as well. But let me propose we do one more change. Let's go ahead and introduce that same special casing of Padma to fix her house from Gryffindor, for instance, to Ravenclaw. How do we do this with dictionaries? Well, dictionaries, like lists, are mutable. You can change what is in them, just like you can lists. How do you do that? It's just a little different syntactically. So let's go back into main and do this fix. If the student variable has a name key that equals equals Padma, then, indented, go ahead and change the value of the house key inside of that student dictionary to be, quote, unquote, "Ravenclaw" instead. So very similar in spirit to what we did with a list. But instead of using location 0 and 1, we're much more clearly, explicitly, semantically using, quote, unquote, "name" and, quote, unquote, "house," because you index into lists and tuples using numbers, but you index into dictionaries using strings, as I've done here. All right, let me go ahead and run Python of student.py. We'll again do Harry from Gryffindor. And I think all is well. Let me run it one more time this time with Padma, who, in the movies, is from Gryffindor, but should really be from Ravenclaw. Any questions then on this progression from tuples to lists to dictionaries? We haven't necessarily introduced anything new, other than those tuples, which have been available to us all this time. But the goal at the moment is just to demonstrate this distinction among these different data types and how they each work a little bit differently. AUDIENCE: What if a combination of lists is there in our tuple? We can change the list because are immutable but lists are mutable? DAVID J. MALAN: Correct. You can change the contents of lists, and you can put most anything you want in them-- other lists or strings, as I've done, integers, or anything else. Tuples you can do the exact same thing, but you cannot change them once you've created them. A dictionary is more like a list in that it is mutable. You can change it. But the way you index into a dictionary is by way of these keys, these strings, as we keep saying, rather than by numbers-- those numeric indices.