


All right, well, let me propose that there is yet another way of solving this problem. And I would argue that there's now an opportunity at hand. Even though this program isn't particularly complicated-- all I'm doing is collecting a name from the user and a house from the user-- you could imagine wanting, longer term, to collect even more information, like the student's patronus or magical spell or a whole bunch of other information that might belong in a student. And right now, we're just using these very general purpose data types in Python-- a tuple to combine some values together; a list to do the same, but let us change it later; a dictionary, which is more powerful because it's a little more structured. It does have keys, and it has values, not just values. But you know what? We wouldn't have to be having this conversation if the authors of Python had just given us a data type called student. Wouldn't it have been nice if there were just a type of variable I could create in my code called student? Then we wouldn't have to figure out, well, do we use a tuple or a list or a dictionary? But that's pretty reasonable. You can imagine just how slippery of a slope that is, so to speak, if the creators of a language had to anticipate all the possible types of data that programmers like you and me want to store in your programs. So they just gave us these general purpose tools. But they gave us another general purpose tool that's going to allow us to create our own data types as well and actually give them names, and that terminology is a class. A class is like a blueprint for pieces of data objects. A class is a mold that you can define and give a name. And when you use that mold or you use that blueprint, you get types of data that are designed exactly as you want. So in short, classes allow you to invent your own data types in Python and give them a name. And this is a primary feature of object oriented programming, to be able to create your own objects in this way and, in the case of Python in classes, even give them some custom names. So what does this mean in real terms? Well, let me go ahead and come back to VS Code here, and let me propose that we introduce a little bit of new syntax. I'm going to go ahead and clear my terminal window first. I'm going to go to the top of my file, and I'm just going to start a thought but not finish it yet. I'm going to use this new keyword for classes, called, literally, class, so the new keyword we're going to have here. And if I go back to our slides here, this would be the official URL where you can read up more on this particular feature of Python. In the official tutorial, class is a new keyword we can use. Now, this is coincidentally related to students because students take classes, but it has nothing to do with the fact that we're dealing with students. Class is a general purpose term in a lot of languages-- Python among them-- that allow you to define these custom containers with custom names for pieces of data. So let's go back to VS Code. Let's use this new keyword. And let me propose that we create a class called Student. And by convention, I'm going to use a capital S here, and I'm going to go ahead, and with a colon, get to, later, the implementation of this class. So I'm just going to use dot dot dot, which is a valid placeholder for now, that just indicates to me that I'm going to come back to implementing this later. But as of now, it does, in fact, exist. I now have a student class defined for me that I can now use in my code here. How am I going to use it? Well, first of all, let me go down to get_student, and let me change this code to no longer use a dictionary but to use this class. I'm going to do this. I'm going to give myself a variable called student, as I've done before, but I'm going to set it equal to capital Student ().  So I'm going to do what appears to be calling a function and that function, Student with a capital S, notice, matches the name that I gave this class at the top of my file. All right, what do I next want to do? I'm going to go ahead and give this student a name. Now, if I were still using a dictionary, I would say student, quote, unquote, "name," using square brackets. But this is not a dictionary. It turns out classes have what, for now, we'll call attributes, properties of sorts that allow you to specify values inside of them. And the syntax for that happens to be a dot. We've seen dots before. We've used it in the context of modules and libraries, more generally. This is another similar in spirit use of a dot that allows you to get at something inside of something else. So student.name is going to be the syntax I use for giving this student a name. And that name is going to be whatever the return value of "Name" is. And then I'm going to go ahead and say student.house to give another attribute called "House" and give that the return value of input here, prompting the user for house. And then, as before, I'm just going to return student. But now what's really powerful about class, and object-oriented programming more generally, is that I've created this custom data type called, literally, Student, capital S. I've stored one such student in a variable like I can always do in a variable called student, lowercase s. But I could call it anything I want. It just makes sense to call it student as well, but lowercase for clarity. And then I'm returning that variable. And because of my syntax in lines 14 and 15, that has the result of putting inside of that class a name attribute and a house attribute. I just need to make one more change up here. I'm going to go ahead and remove our Padma code, just so we can focus only on what's new, rather than fixing her house. And I'm going to go in here and change the syntax that previously was for dictionaries. Again, dictionaries use square brackets and then strings in quotes-- either single quotes or double quotes, depending on the context. Here, though, I'm going to change this to be student.name, and over here, I'm going to change it to be student.house. And that's just going to be my new syntax for getting the contents of what appears to be a class called student. Let me go ahead and rerun Python of student.py, Enter. Let's type in Harry's name as before. Let's put him in Gryffindor, crossing our fingers as we often do, and Harry is indeed from Gryffindor. What, though, have I done? Let's introduce one other bit of terminology here it turns out that I can create a class, using that class keyword. But any time you use a class, you're creating what are called objects. And here is the word objects, as an object-oriented programming, or OOP. Let me go back to my code here. And even though I haven't really implemented much of it at all-- I literally just left it with a dot, dot, dot-- that's enough code, lines 1 and 2, to just invent a new data type called Student, capital S, that may or may not have some future functionality as well. That's enough to create a class. What, though, am I doing on line 11? On line 11, what I'm technically doing is creating an object of that class. So this, too, is another term of art. You create objects from classes. So if we go back to that metaphor, that a class is like a blueprint for a house or a class is like a mold, an object is when you use that blueprint to build a specific house or something that comes out of-- in plaster, the mold, when you actually use that mold to create such an object. So a class is, again, the definition of a new data type. The object is the incarnation of, or technically instantiation of. And another term for objects would actually be an instance. You have instances of classes as well. So that's a lot of vocabulary. But at the end of the day, it just boils down to this. You can define your own class, which is really your own data type. You can then store attributes inside of it, using this dot notation here. And then you can access those same attributes using code like this here. And now, I have a proper "student" data type, and I don't have to hack something together using a tuple or a list or even a dictionary. I now have a proper data type called "student" that the authors of Python didn't give me; I gave myself. Any questions now on classes, this new keyword, class, or this idea of these objects or instances thereof? AUDIENCE: Is the class object mutable or immutable? DAVID J. MALAN: A good question. And we've clearly laid the stage for having that conversation about every data type now. We will see that they are mutable, but you can make them immutable. So you can get the best of both worlds. Now, by writing some actual code-- and we'll write more code than the dot, dot, dot in just a bit, other questions on classes or these objects thereof? AUDIENCE: Then what would be the properties of those classes? DAVID J. MALAN: So at the moment, the properties of-- or the attributes of, as I've been calling them thus far-- would just be "Name" and "House." It turns out that there may very well be other attributes built into classes that we may see before long. But for now, the only two attributes that I care about are the ones that I myself created-- namely "Name" and "House" or, again, what I would call attributes. And in a little bit, we're going to start calling those same attributes, more technically, instance variables. "Name" and "House," as I presented them here in VS Code are really just variables called "name" and called "house" inside of an object whose type is student. All right, so what more can we do with these classes? Well, again, on line 11 is where we're instantiating an object of the student class and assigning it to a student variable. We're then adding attributes-- "Name" and "House," respectively-- on lines 12 and 13 currently. Both of those have values that are technically strings or strs, because that's what the return value of the input is. But those attributes values could actually be any data type. We're just keeping things simple and focusing on defining students in terms of two strings-- "Name" and "House." And then, on line 14, we're returning that variable. We're returning that object to main so that we can actually print out who is from what house. Well, let's go ahead and add a bit more functionality here because, right now, on lines 12 and 13, this is a little manual. And it's a little reckless of me to just be putting anything I want inside of this student object. It turns out with classes, unlike with dictionaries, we can actually standardize, all the more, what those attributes can be and what kinds of values you can set them to. So let me go ahead and do this. Let me propose that it would actually be really nice if, instead of doing this here, let me go ahead and simplify my code as follows. Let me go ahead and give myself a local variable called name and set it equal to the return value of input, like we've done many times now already. Let me give myself one other variable for now, called house, and set it equal to the return value of input as well, prompting the user for their house. And now, instead of creating a student object from my student class and then manually putting the name attribute inside of it and the house attribute inside of it, let me actually do something more powerful. Let me do this. Let me call that Student function, which is identical to the class name-- just by defining a class, you get a function whose name is identical to the class name, with the capital letter included. But instead of just doing open parenthesis, closed parenthesis, let me pass in the name that I want to fill this object with and the house that I want to put in that object as well. And now let me set the return value as before to be student equals like this. So what have I done that's different? Fundamentally, I'm still getting user input in the same way. I'm using input on line 11 and input on line 12. And I just so happen to be storing those return values in local variables. And now we're setting the stage for the more powerful features of classes and object-oriented programming more generally. Notice that I'm deliberately passing to this capital S Student function, name, house-- I'm passing in arguments to the function. Now, the student class is not going to know what to do with those yet, but now I'm standardizing how I'm passing data into this student class. And ultimately, it's going to give me an opportunity to error check those inputs, to make sure that the name is valid, that it has a value and it's not just the user hitting Enter. It's going to allow me to ensure that it's a valid house, that it's Gryffindor or Hufflepuff or Ravenclaw or Slytherin or not just hitting Enter or some random value that the user types in. Because I'm passing "Name" and "House" to the student class, this particular function, I'm going to have more control over the correctness of my data. 
