But I can override this as well. It turns out that there are other special methods in Python when it comes to classes-- not just underscore underscore, init, underscore underscore, but, continuing in that same pattern, underscore underscore, str, underscore underscore. So this, too, is a special method that, if you define it inside of your class, Python will just automatically call this function for you any time some other function wants to see your object as a string. Print wants to see your object as a string. But by default, if you don't have this method defined in your class, it's going to print out that very ugly esoteric incarnation thereof, where it says main__.Student object at 0x, dot, dot, dot. Well, how can I then define my own str function? Well, here, back in VS Code, let me propose that I go in and define not just __ init, but let me define a second function in this class here, as follows-- def __ str __. There are two. Even though the font in VS Code is putting the two underscore so close, it just looks like a longer underscore. There are indeed two there, on the left and the right just like for init. This one only takes one argument that, by convention, is always called self so that you have access to it. And then, indented below that after a colon, I'm going to go ahead and create a format string and return it. So let me go ahead and return-- how about something generic first like "a student." So I'm not going to bother even trying to figure out what this student's name or house is. I'm just going to always return "a student." Let me go back now to my earlier code, which has print (student) on line 16. Let me clear my terminal window and rerun Python of student.py, Enter. Type in Harry, type in Gryffindor. Last time, I saw that very cryptic output. This time, I see, more generically, "a student." More readable but not very enlightening. Which student is this? Well, notice that the double underscore str method takes in this self argument by default. It's just the way the Python authors designed this method. It will always be passed a reference to the current student object. What do I mean by that? When this line of code on line 6 is called, print, because it's hoping it's going to get a string, is going to trigger the underscore underscore, str, underscore underscore method to be called. And Python, for you, automatically is going to pass into that method a reference to the object that's trying to be printed so that you, the programmer, can do something like this. Here's an f string with double quotes as usual. I'm going to use some curly braces and say print out self.name from self.house. So there's nothing new in what I've just done. It's just an f string-- an f on the beginning, two double quotes, a couple of pairs of curly braces. But because, automatically, this str method gets passed self, so to speak, a reference to the current object, I can go inside of that object and grab the name. I can go inside that object again and grab the house. So now, when I go back to my terminal window-- previously it just printed out a student. But now, if I run Python of student.py, Enter-- type in Harry, type in Gryffindor, and one more time hit Enter, Harry is again from Gryffindor. But if I run this yet again-- let's, for instance, do Draco is from Slytherin, Enter. Draco's from Slytherin. Now it's customized to the specific object that we're trying to print. Questions on this function here-- this Dunder str method. AUDIENCE: Is there anything else that the underscore underscore, str method can do? The other question is, what's the difference between str and repr. DAVID J. MALAN: A good question. So there are many other methods that come with Python classes that start with underscore underscore. We're just scratching the surface, and we'll pretty much focus primarily on these. But yes, there are many others, and we'll see at least one other in just a little bit. Among the others is one called repr, which is a representation of the Python object. Generally speaking, the underscore underscore, repr, underscore underscore method is meant for developers' eyes. It typically has more information than "Harry from Gryffindor." It would also say what type of object it is, like a student, capital S, whereas underscore underscore, str, underscore underscore is generally meant for users-- the users of the program, and it's meant to be even more user-friendly. But both of those can be overridden as you see fit. Well, let me propose now that we pick up where we've left off on student and just add even more functionality, but not just these special methods like double underscore init and double underscore str. Let's create our own methods because therein lies the real power and flexibility of classes if you and I as the programmers can invent new functionality that's specific to students. For instance, students at Hogwarts, over the time in school, learn how to cast a certain type of spell. So when they say, Expecto Patronum, something comes out of their wand that typically resembles an animal or something like that. It's a special spell that they have to practice and practice. So let's see if we can't store, not just the student's name and their house, but also their "patronus," what, actually, they conjure when using this spell. Well, let me go ahead and clear my terminal window. And in the top of my code here, in the init method of Student, let me go ahead and start expecting a third argument, in addition to self, which automatically gets passed in, called patronus. And I'm not going to worry, for now, on validating the patronus from an official list of valid patronuses, or patroni. I'm instead going to go ahead and just blindly assign it to self.patronus = patronus, and we're going to let the user type whatever they want for now. But I could certainly add more error checking if I wanted to limit the patronus to a specific list of them here. Let me go ahead now and prompt the user for this patronus, as by-- in my get_student function-- defining a variable called patronus or anything else, prompting the user for input for their patronus. And now I'm going to go ahead and pass in that third variable here. So again, similar in spirit to just adding more and more attributes to the class, I'm going to pass in all three of these values instead of just two. I'm not going to do anything interesting with that value yet. But just to make sure I haven't made things worse by breaking my code, let me run Python of student.py. I'll type in Harry. I'll type in Gryffindor. And it turns out his patronus was a stag, . And hit Enter I haven't seen what his patronus is in my output because I didn't change my str method yet. But at least I don't have any syntax errors. So at least I've not made anything worse.