But suppose, now, I want to have functionality, not just for initializing a student and printing out a student. If my class is really meant to be a student, what I can do is not just remember information about data about students. What's powerful about classes, unlike dictionaries alone, is that classes can have, not just variables or instance variables-- those attributes we keep creating. They can also have functions built in, a.k.a. methods. When a function is inside of a class, it's called a "method," but it's still just a function. At this point, we've seen two functions already-- two methods-- called a double underscore init and double underscore str, but those are special methods in that they just work. If you define them, Python calls them automatically for you. But what if you wanted to create more functionality for a student so that your class really represents this real world, or maybe "fantasy" world notion of a student, where students not only have names and houses and patronuses; they also have functionality. They have actions they can perform like casting a charm, a spell, magically. Could we implement, therefore, a function called charm, that actually uses their magical knowledge? Well, let's go ahead and define our very own function as follows. Let me clear my terminal window, scroll back up to my student class. And instead of creating yet another function that's special, with double underscores, I'm going to invent my own function, or method, inside of this class. I want to give Harry and Hermione and all of the other students the ability to cast charms, so I'm going to define a function that I can completely, on my own, call charm. I could call this function anything I want. But because it's a method inside of a class, the convention is that it's always going to take at least one argument, called self, by convention so that you have access to the current object, even if you don't plan to use it, per se. All right, let me go ahead and propose that we implement charm in such a way that the method returns an emoji that's appropriate for each student's patronus. How to implement this-- well, inside of the charm method, let's go ahead and match on self.patronus, which is the instance variable containing a string that represents each student's patronus. And in the case that it matches a stag, for instance, for Harry, let's go ahead and return maybe the closest emoji-- this horse here. How about in the case of an otter? Well, in that case, let's go ahead and return, oh, maybe the closest match to the otter, which might be this emoji here. And let's see, in the case of a-- for Ron, rather than Hermione-- a Jack Russell terrier, let's go ahead and return-- don't have as many options here. Why don't we go ahead and return the cutest available dog in that case. And in the case of no patronus recognized, as might cover someone like Draco, let's go ahead and use a default case using the underscore as in the past, and let's go ahead and return for this-- oh, what should happen if someone doesn't have a patronus? Why don't we just see a magical wand that seems to fizzle out, as in this case? All right, well, now, rather than just print the student, let's go about printing their actual patronus. So I'm going to go down to my main function here. I'm going to still get a student, using the get_student function. But rather than print student, let's go ahead and declare "Expecto Patronum!" printing out just that as pure text. And now let's go ahead and print out, not the student but, rather, the return value of their own charm method. So let me go back down to my terminal window and run Python of student.py and Enter. Name-- let's start with Harry. He lives in Gryffindor. Patronus is a stag. And let's see-- Expecto Patronum! And of course, we'd see the stag emoji. What about someone like Draco, who, at least in the books, doesn't have a known patronus? Well, let's go ahead and clear my terminal window, rerun Python of student.py, and this time, let's type in Draco for name, Slytherin for house, and Patronus is unknown. So I'm just going to go ahead and hit Enter. And now, Expecto Patronum! And it just of sizzles instead.