All right, so this is a lot all at once-- this Introduction to object-oriented programming. But it might come as quite a surprise that, even though we might have identified OOP by name in weeks past, we've all been using classes and objects for weeks now in this class. In fact, if you think back on one of the very first things we did in this class, we used integers and just got integers from the user. But if you haven't already-- if you go and dig into the documentation for integers, which, again, lives at this URL here, you would actually find that int itself is and has been for weeks a class. And in fact, this is the signature of the constructor call for an int, whereby you pass in x, like a number, quote, unquote, "50" or, quote, unquote, something else-- you pass in optionally the base-- 10 for decimal, 2 for binary or anything else. And that int function will actually return to you, all this time, an object of type int. That is to say int is a class. It is a template, a blueprint for creating integers in memory. And any time you and I have converted a string, for, instance to an int, you and I have been creating an object of type int that was calling, apparently, the underscore underscore, init, underscore underscore method, that someone else-- the authors of Python-- wrote to give us back that proper integer. Besides that, if you can believe it, strs, strings in Python have been classes since the first week of this class as well. If you look up the documentation for a str, which lives at a similar URL there, you will find that, when you instantiate-- that is, create a str-- it takes, optionally, a parameter called object here, the default value of which is just, quote, unquote, which allows you to create, in effect, an empty string, a blank string, if you will. But any time you and I have created strs or even used explicitly the str function, you are getting back an object of type str. Any time you and I have forced a string to lowercase per the documentation, using syntax like this, you and I have been taking an object of type str and forcing it all to lowercase by calling a method called lower, a method that the authors of Python built into the str class, but it's been there from the get-go, so this notion of methods is not even new today. You wouldn't have been doing it for this long. If you've ever called strip to remove the leading and the trailing whitespace from a string in Python, you are calling another method that came with Python-- written by the authors of Python. And even though we didn't call it a class at the time, a str, all this time, has been a class. And instances of strings are, themselves, objects. And those objects come therefore with these functions built in-- a.k.a. methods that allow us to do things like force to lowercase and strip whitespace from the beginning and end. Let's do another. list-- any time you've created a list, either syntactically with square brackets or literally with L-I-S-T, open parentheses, closed parentheses, which is also possible, you have been using a class. If you go to the documentation for list, at this similar URL here, or more specifically, the tutorial on lists here in Python, you will see that a list is and has been, since the early weeks of this class, a class itself. And that list class takes, as part of its initialization, an optional iterable, something that can be iterated over-- like 1, 2, 3, or some list of values, and you can then get back a list containing those same iterable values. If you've ever appended something to a list in this class, as I have myself in the past, you've been using a method called append that comes with the list class that, per the x here, takes an argument that allows you to append something to the current list, a.k.a. Self in the context of that method. We can do this all day long. If you've used a dictionary or a dict in Python-- I've actually, all this time, been calling them dict objects, and that's for a reason. dict itself is a class in Python, if you pull up its official documentation here. And you'll see that it is defined, indeed, as itself a class. And that class comes with methods as well. And so any time we've manipulated dictionaries, we've been underneath the hood, using all of those same methods. And in fact, we can see this if we're really curious. Let me go back over here to VS Code. And let me go ahead and create a new file that, very simply, does something play around with data types. And let me go ahead and create a new file, for instance, called, say, type.py, just so that I can poke around inside of some values. And in type.py, I'm just going to go ahead and do this. I'm going to print out whatever the type is of, say, the number 50. And This is a function you've not necessarily seen me use already, and it's not one you would frequently use in your own code. There are other ways to detect, if you need to, what the type is of a variable. But in this case, type of 50 is just going to tell me and then print out what the data type is of that value. Now, hopefully, all of us could guess that 50 is indeed going to be an integer-- that is, an int, but we can see it in this way. And this, too, is what's powerful about knowing a bit of programming. If you want to know the answer to a question, just try it out, like I am here. So let me go ahead and run Python of type.py, Enter. And there it is. When you print out the type of the number 50, you'll see on the screen, in this cryptic syntax, class 'int.' This is not something that you probably want to show to the user. But if you yourself just want to poke around and see what's going on or maybe use that information somehow, it's certainly at your disposal to use this type function for that. Let's change it around a little bit. Instead of passing as the argument to type 50, as an int, let's type something also familiar, like "hello, world," in double or single quotes. Let me go back to my terminal window, clear the screen, and run Python of type.py again. And now, voila, there it is. All this time, a str is also a class. We can do this a few more times, For. Instance. Let's go ahead and change "hello, world" to just an empty list-- open square bracket, closed square bracket. And this is starting to look a little cryptic, but, again, notice what I'm doing. In square brackets is an empty list. We've done that before. That is the sole argument to this new type function. And that's just being passed to the print function so that the return value of type is the argument to print. So if I now run this code, Python of type.py, there it is. A list is a class, too. You might recall that I said that you can also create an empty list by literally doing list (). This is a bit of an inconsistency, as we can now identify that int and str and now list-- they're technically all lowercase. And I went to great lengths of creating my student class to have that capital S. That's a convention. Because int and stir and list and others come with Python, they decided to make their built-in data types-- even though they're classes-- all lowercase. But the convention, the recommendation in the Python community when creating your classes is to capitalize the first letter, as I did, in something like Student, capital S. But list () is identical to really just two empty square brackets. If I clear my screen and run type.py again, you see the exact same thing. The class is called list. Let's do one more. Let me change the list to be not square brackets but curly braces. We've done this before. Any time I've done two curly braces with nothing in between, this, of course, is an empty dictionary, or a dict object in Python. Well, we can see that now. Let me clear my screen, run Python of type.py, Enter, and there it is-- class 'dict." It's been there this whole time. We just didn't call it a class until today. I can similarly do this one explicitly. Instead of two curly braces, let's write out dict with two parentheses. Now we have a lot of parentheses again, like with list. But this is just making even more clear that the type of a dict object is indeed the class, dict, itself. So this is to say that, as new as a lot of today's idea and syntax, might be you've actually been using it, perhaps unbeknownst to you, for weeks now. We now just have terminology to describe what it is we've been doing all this time. And you now have the expressiveness, with some practice, to create your own classes, inside of which are your own instance variables, perhaps wrapped with those properties and your own instance methods.