But it turns out there's other types of methods in the world. Thus far, I've been deliberate in calling all of our variables instance variables and all of our methods instance methods. It turns out there's other types of variables and methods out there, and one of those is called class methods. It turns out that sometimes it's not really necessary or sensible to associate a function with objects of a class, but rather with the class itself. An instance, or an object of a class, is a very specific incarnation thereof. Again, on that neighborhood that has a lot of identical looking buildings, but they're all a little bit different because of different paint and such, sometimes you might have functionality related to each of those houses that isn't distinct or unique for any of the houses. It's functionality that's going to be exactly the same no matter the house in question. Same in the world of object-oriented programming. Sometimes you want some functionality, some action to be associated with the class itself, no matter what the specific object's own values or instance variables are. And for that, we have a keyword called @classmethod. This is another decorator-- really, another function-- that you can use to specify that this method is not, by default, implicitly an instance method that has access to self, the object itself. This is a class method that's not going to have access to self, but it does know what class it's inside. So what do I mean by this? Well, let me go back to VS Code here. And let me propose that we create a new file this time implementing the notion of a-- the sorting hat, from the world of Harry Potter as well, to stay on theme. I'm going to go ahead and run code of hat.py. And in hat.py, let's implement the notion of the sorting hat. If unfamiliar in the books and in the films there is literally a pointy hat that, when a student put it's on their head, that sorting hat, so to speak, decides what house the student is in-- whether it's Gryffindor or something else. So let's implement, in code, this notion of a sorting hat such that, when we pass to the sorting hat the name of a student, like, quote, unquote, "Harry" this sorting hat, implemented in code, will tell us what house that student should be in. Well, let's go ahead and do this. In hat.py, first, let's go ahead and define a class called hat, and then let's get back to implementing it itself. And I find this to be a helpful technique, not just with teaching but when writing code. I know I want a hat class. I don't necessarily know what I want it to do yet, so I'm going to create this placeholder, dot, dot, dot, so I'll come back to that. Let's now try to use this class as though it existed. And from there, I perhaps can realize exactly what functionality that class needs to have to support my use case. Let me go ahead and create a variable called hat in all lowercase and instantiate a hat object. So no matter what the hat class ends up looking like, this is the common syntax for instantiating an object of a certain class. In the past, we saw student, all lowercase, equals capital Student, open parenthesis, close parentheses, and then eventually, we added in things like name and house. For now, let's assume that the hat is much simpler than a student, and it only has sorting capabilities. So I'm not going to even pass any arguments there, too. Let me assume that the sorting hat has one function-- one method inside of it called, sort. And so if I do hat.sort ("Harry"), let's propose that that prints out what house that student should be in. So that's it. I'm going to encapsulate-- that is tuck away inside of a hat class-- all of this requisite functionality, and I'm going to print out onto the screen what hat-- what house Harry belongs in. Now I think I need to get into the weeds of actually initializing this class. Well, let me go ahead and do this. If I don't care to parameterize hat-- I just want to, for instance sort values, let's go ahead and define this function, sort, first. So let's define sort, as taking a first argument, self, which is always going to be the case when defining an instance method as before. But the sort method clearly takes one argument from the programmer, me-- namely the student's name. And again, we've seen this dichotomy before. Even though I'm trying to pass in one argument, when I define the method, it's got to take that many arguments, plus one more-- self which is always going to be automatically passed in by Python first. What do I want to do? Well, let's go ahead and do something like this.  Print, this name-- how about "is in," "some house." I'm going to, again, use some placeholder code for myself because I'm not quite sure how to finish implementing this sorting hat. But I think that's enough to just test where my code is at now. Let me go ahead and run Python of hat.py and hit Enter. And it looks like, indeed, Harry is in some house. We're not done yet because it's clearly not doing anything interesting, but it at least is running correctly with no errors. Well, let's go ahead now and decide where-- what house Harry should actually be in by introducing a bit of randomness and choosing a house randomly. While I can do this in a few ways, Let. Me go ahead and do this. I need to have a list of houses somewhere. So where can I put that? I could solve this problem in different ways. Let me propose that I do this. Let me define a method called init, as I've done before, that takes in self, but no other arguments. And whenever the sorting hat is instantiated, let's do this. Let's create a houses instance variable, plural, that equals this list-- Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, Slytherin, so the exact same list that we've used before, and I'm storing it in an instance variable inside of this class. I'm not taking any arguments beyond self to init, but I just need this list of values somewhere, for instance. So what can I do here? Well, let me go ahead and replace some house with the actual house. Well, what could I do here? Well, I want to put a house there. Well, let's go ahead and create a variable called house. And if you think back to our discussion of libraries, in the random module, there is a function called choice that, if you pass in a list of choices, like self.houses, that will pick a random house out of those four. And then on line 7, I can pass it in. If I want to tighten this up, let me just go ahead and highlight that code, get rid of the variable. It's technically unnecessary. And because the line of code is still pretty short, I'm OK with just putting it all in one line. But I could certainly use the variable like I did a moment ago. So what have I done? In my init function, I have defined a initialization of the object that stores in self.houses the list of four houses. And then, in sort, I'm accessing that same list, but I'm randomly choosing the set of houses there. Now, why have I done it in this way? This, too, is general convention. Any time you have a list of things that-- who knows? Maybe will change over time. Places like Harvard have constructed new houses over the years, so you might have to change the list of available houses. It didn't happen in seven books or eight films of Harry Potter. But you could imagine maybe Hogwarts eventually has a fifth house, so there's generally some value in putting list of constants toward the top of your file, toward the top of the class so it's just obvious what the list of values is. You don't want to necessarily tuck it away in some function, like sort, especially if you might want to use that function-- sorry, especially if you want to use that list in multiple functions, not just sort. But if I kept adding to this class, you might want to use that same list of houses in multiple functions. So let's keep it in the object itself by storing it in self.houses. All right, well, we're about to change the course of history here perhaps. Let me do Python of hat.py, and I think we're about to assign Harry to one of those four houses randomly. Huh, NameError. Name 'random' is not defined. Well, wait a minute, where did I go wrong here? Thinking back to our class on libraries, why did my code break and not tell me where Harry is to be? AUDIENCE: You did not import the random library. DAVID J. MALAN: Exactly. If the random library or module is something I want to use, I need to tell Python that at the top of my file. So let me go up here and do import random. And then, below that, let me go ahead and clear my terminal window and try again. Python of hat.py, crossing my fingers, seeing where Harry is going to end up. And, OK, Harry as of now is officially in Hufflepuff, despite everything you've read or seen. Well, let's run this again. Let me clear my window and run Python of hat.py, and now he's in Ravenclaw. That's consistent with using random. Let's clear that and run it again. He's still in Ravenclaw, but that could happen, even though there's four choices. Let's do it again. Hufflepuff-- back in Hufflepuff. We can't seem to get the right answer. Now he's in Gryffindor, albeit randomly. So we seem to have a program that, based on these limited tests, seems to be assigning Harry to a house randomly. Now I'm somewhat lazily just letting sort print out this value. I could do something else, like return a string, and then let me, on line 13, do the printing for me. But for now, I think we have an example of a class called hat that, nonetheless, applies some of our lessons learned thus far today, where I've created a class-- because a sorting hat is, frankly-- well, I was about to say real world entity, but really a fantasy world entity. And indeed, that's a, perhaps, common heuristic or mental model to have. When should you use a class to represent something in your code? Very often, when you're trying to represent some real world entity or fantasy world entity, like a student, which is something in the real world, like a sorting hat, which, OK, doesn't exist, but hat's certainly do, so quite reasonable to have a class for hat. And that's not always the case that classes represent real world entities. But we've seen thus far that int and stir and list and dict-- these are all structures that you might have in the real world. We have integers and strings of text and other things. So it rather makes sense to represent even those things, more technically, using a class as well. You could use just a dictionary to represent a student or a hat. But again, with classes come all this and even more functionality. But I honestly am not using classes in, really, the "right way" here. Why? Well, in the world of Harry Potter there really is only, to my knowledge, one sorting hat. And yet, here I have gone and implemented a class called hat. And again, a class is like a blueprint, a template, a mold that allows you to create one or more objects thereof. Now, most of my programs Thus far have been pretty simple, and I've just created one student. But certainly, if I spent more time and wrote more code, you could imagine writing one program that has a list of students-- many more students than just the one we keep demonstrating. Yet it would be a little weird-- it's a little inconsistent with the real or the fantasy world of Harry Potter to instantiate one, two, three or more sorting hats. There really is just one. Really one singleton, if you will, which is a term of art in a lot of contexts of programming. So let me propose that we actually improve the design of the sorting hat so that we don't have to instantiate a sorting hat because right now this is kind of allowing me to do something like hat 1 = hat, hat 2 = hat, hat 3 =, and so forth. I don't really need that capability. I really just need to represent the sorting hat with a class, but I don't really need to instantiate it. Why? Because it already exists. I need just one. So it turns out, in Python, that, up until now, we've been using, as I keep calling them, instance methods-- writing functions inside of classes that are automatically passed a reference to self, the current object. But sometimes you just don't need that. Sometimes it suffices to just know what the class is and assume that there might not even be any objects of that class. So in this sense, you can use a class really as a container for data and/or functionality that is just somehow conceptually related-- things related to a sorting hat. And there's this other decorator or function called @classmethod that allows us to do just this. So let me go back to my code here. And let me propose that, if I'm not going to instantiate multiple houses, I don't really need this init method because that's really meant to initialize specific objects from that blueprint, that template, that mold. So let me get rid of this. But if I get rid of this, I no longer have access to self. But that's OK because it turns out, in addition to their existing class methods, there are also what we might call class variables. And class variables exist within the class itself. And there's just one copy of that variable for all of the objects thereof. They all share, if you will, the same variable-- be it an int or str or, in this case, a list. So what I've done here is define, inside of my hat class, in a class variable called houses-- I don't say self because self is no longer relevant. Self refers to specific objects. I want a variable inside of this class, a.k.a. A class variable that equals that list. Because it's inside of this hat, now, class, I can use that list in any of my functions. I've only got one now, called sort. But if I had more, it would be accessible to all of those methods as well. And with sort, it also doesn't really make sense to sort within a specific sorting hat because, again, I only want there to be one. So I can actually specify that this is class method by saying @classmethod. And I don't pass in self anymore. I actually, by convention, pass in a reference to the class itself. It's typically written as cls. Why? Well, if you wrote C-L-A-S-S, that would actually conflict with the keyword "class" that we keep using up here. So the world realized that, oops, we can't reuse that same phrase here. So let's just call this class. This is useful in some contexts including this one. Why? Well, notice what I can now do. I can now change self to be just class. Why? Because houses now-- not an instance variable, accessible via self.houses. It is now a class variable, accessible via class.houses, or technically cls.houses in this case. But now the final flourish is this. Now, I don't have to instantiate any hat objects as I used to on here, line 13. I can just use functionality that comes with this class. So I'm going to delete that line altogether. I'm going to capitalize the hat on this new line 13 and just say hat.sort, ("Harry"). So what have I done? I've not bothered instantiating an object of type, hat. I am just accessing a class method inside of the hat class that-- you know what? Is just going to work. This is how class methods work. You use the name of the class, capital letter and all, dot method name, passing in any arguments you want. Python is going to automatically pass in some variable via which you can refer to that class in that function that you've implemented inside of that class so that I can do something like this. It's not that I want a variable called houses locally in this function, I want the variable called houses that's associated with this current class so I can still access this same list that I defined on line 6. And now, if I go back down here to my terminal and run Python of hat.py, Enter, Harry is still in Hufflepuff once more. Harry is still in Hufflepuff once more. Harry is back in Gryffindor, at least randomly. Questions, now, on these class variables or these class methods, which are in contrast with instance variables and instance methods. And the one thing, at least, that's a little strange here is that, even though there's a decorator called @classmethod, there is not one called @instancemethod. A method is just automatically a so-called "instant method" when you define it without any decorator. AUDIENCE: Can you have a class inside another class? DAVID J. MALAN: You can. You can define one class inside of another. Generally speaking, this isn't done, but there are cases where it can be helpful, especially for larger, more sophisticated programs. So yes, it is possible. Other questions. AUDIENCE: The question was about the self.houses. When we remove it and we pass data, variable is created itself, s why we remove the self? DAVID J. MALAN: So in the previous examples-- both of the hat demonstration and also all of the student demonstrations-- we were creating a student object by calling Student, capital S, open parenthesis, close parenthesis, with, eventually, name and a house passed in. And then we were using the double underscore init method to initialize the self.name and the self.house instance variables therein to those respective values. In this latest version of the sorting hat, I haven't bothered with self anywhere, only because, conceptually, I don't need or want there to be multiple hats in the world. I'm just using the class as a container to bundle up this list of houses, this sorting functionality. Maybe eventually all add more functionality to it. But that's it. And so sometimes you can use object-oriented programming in this somewhat different way when you want there to be functionality but it's not specific to any one specific hat. It's specific to the sorting hat itself. How about one other question now, on these class variables or methods-- just another way of using object-oriented programming but to solve a somewhat different problem? AUDIENCE: Well, what's the difference between the class hat and a function of hat? DAVID J. MALAN: A good question. So why are we using a class at all and not just having a file called hat.py with a variable called houses and a function called sort? Why are we adding this complexity? In this particular case, we don't necessarily need to. I could absolutely go in here. I could get rid of the class. I could undo this indentation. I could get rid of this decorator. And I could get rid of hat dot. And I could just do this and additionally let's say, let's get rid of class here. Let's get rid of class here. And now run Python of hat.py, Enter, and it still works. Put Harry in the wrong house, but that's what we have-- what happens randomly. That's fine, too. What we're introducing today, by way of object-oriented programming, is just a different way of modeling the world. It's not really compelling with an example like this, frankly, that's relatively simple. It's not very complex. There's not much functionality. Honestly, the version that we just typed up-- these 10 lines-- this is fine. This solves this problem. But as our code gets longer, as we start collaborating with other people, as the problems we're trying to solve with code get more sophisticated, you're going to find that your code gets messy quickly. And you're going to find that you have a huge number of functions, for instance, in one file. And some of them are related to each other, but some of them are not. Well, at that point, wouldn't it be nice to just organize them a little differently? And in the world of Harry Potter, let's have a class for student; let's have a class for Professor; let's have a class for the sorting hat; let's have a class for something else. And so once your world gets much more complicated than some of the demonstrations we do here in class when we want to focus on individual ideas, object-oriented programming is just a way of encapsulating related data-- that is, variables-- related functionality-- that is, methods-- inside of things that have names. These things are called classes. So it's just another way to solve problems. And when we focused on libraries a couple of weeks back, that, too, was another solution to the same problem. You could define your own modules or packages, put some of your data and/or functionality in there, and that's fine, too. And sometimes which one you should use overlaps. If you're familiar with Venn diagrams, the overlapping region might mean that you could use a class; you could use a module or a package; you could just use a single local file. Over time, you'll develop an instinct and maybe even a personal preference for which tool to use. All right, let me propose, now, that we apply this same idea of a class method to clean up one other thing as well. Let me close that hat.py and reopen student.py as we left it earlier, and let me go ahead and simplify it just a little bit. I'm going to go ahead and get rid of the properties, not because there's anything, wrong with them, but just because I want us to focus on some of the key ideas when we began with this program. So I'm going to go ahead and keep main as well. I'm not going to adversarially try to change Henry's address there. I'm going to instead go ahead, though, and just print the student. But this is the thing I want to focus on here. This, in our previous student examples, was a missed opportunity to clean up my code. Well, what do I mean by that? Well, up here at the top of this file-- even though I've simplified it, but getting rid of the properties and all of that error checking-- because I want to focus on the essence of this class now-- just the student's name and the house and the printing thereof. This is, by nature of classes in object-oriented programming, theoretically, all of my student-specific functionality. That is to say, if I have functionality and data related to a student, you, the programmer, my colleague, would assume that it's all bundled up, encapsulated, so to speak, inside of the student class. And yet, if you scroll down further, what is this? There's a function called get_student that just exists elsewhere in this file that prompts the user for a name, prompts the user for a house, creates the student object, and then returns. That's not wrong. It works. And we saw many, many times it kept working. But this is a little weird because, if this is a function that helps you get a student, helps you get the name of a student and the house of a student, why isn't that functionality in the class itself? After all, as my code gets more and more complicated and does more things, I'm going to be looking at the student class for all student-related functionality. I'm not going to be scrolling down, expecting that, oh, maybe there's some other student functionality just randomly later in this file. So it's not wrong. But this is, again, evidence of maybe bad design-- not so much with this small program. But this is an example, again, of code smell. Something smells a little off here. This is probably going to get us in trouble by separating related functionality. So again it's a design principle, not a correctness concern. But class methods allow us to address this, too. Let me go ahead and do this. I'm going to delete get_student all together, leaving only main as my other function here. And inside of my student class, I'm going to do this. I'm going to define a function, even more simply called, get. And by nature of how class methods work, it's going to take in the name of the class itself or a reference thereto as an argument. And I'm going to move the functionality from get_student into the student class. And I'm going to do this-- name equals input, quote, unquote, name, house equals input, quote, unquote, house. And then what this function is going to do is return a new student object by calling class, which, again, is just an automatically passed-in reference to the class itself, passing in name and house. And I will admit this syntax seems a little strange that now I'm calling cls and I'm passing in these arguments. But let me do one final fix here. Let me go to the top of this function and more explicitly say this is a class method. This solves a potential chicken and the egg problem, so to speak, whereby one needs to come before the other, potentially. So what am I doing here? Inside of my student class, I now have a function called get. It is, I shall claim, a class method what does that mean. It just means I can call this method without instantiating a student object first. Therein lies the potential chicken and the egg problem. And if unfamiliar, that's an expression, meaning, well, and did the world have chickens first that laid eggs, or was there an egg that then yielded the chickens, but how did the egg get there? It's this weird, circular problem. And that's what we're facing here. It would be weird if you had to create a student object in order to call get, in order to get another student object. That sounds messy. Let's just get a student via a class method that, by definition, does not require you to create a student object first. Just like the hat, in its final form, we use the hat class to just say Hat, capital H, dot sort. We didn't need to create a hat first. We just used the class itself. So what am I going to do here now? Let me go down to main. And instead of saying get_student, notice what I can now do. Student.get, and everything else can stay the same. All I've done now is I've migrated all of my logic from get_student, which was this own standalone function, but clearly related to students by name. I've moved the same code, really, to inside of the student class in a more simply named function called get. But I could still call it get_student if I want. It just seems a little redundant to call it get_student in a student class, so I'm simplifying. So I have a method called get, but I'm calling it a class method to avoid that chicken and the egg problem. I want to be able to call a get without having a student object in my universe already. And the syntax for that is @classmethod. The convention is to give this method at least one argument, by convention called cls for class, which is just going to be a reference to the class itself. Lines 11 and 12 are identical to what they've always been. And get_student-- the only new syntax here is this, but this, again, is one of the features of object-oriented programming. You can now instantiate a student object by just using cls that's passed in. I technically could use Student, capital S, but it turns out I'm doing what's more conventional because this will both solve and avoid problems down the line with more complicated code. This line here, on line 13, just means create an object of the current class. What class is that? Well, whatever cls is. Well, that, by definition of how it all works, is going to be student. And I want you to initialize it, as always, with name and house. So now, scrolling down, my code is this. And this is just nice to read. You perhaps have to acquire a taste for this-- and I sound a little odd saying, this is nice to read. But indeed, student.get just tells me what's going on. I'm going to get a student. I don't need a separate function written by me called get_student in the file itself. The get functionality is built into the class. All my student-related code now is together. So let me go down to my terminal window and run Python of student.py, Enter. Let's type in Harry. Let's type in Gryffindor. And we're back to where we began. But, but, but everything related to students, now, is in this here class. The only other thing in the file is main and this conditional that we always use to avoid accidentally executing main when we're making a module or a package or the like. So again, a solution to a problem-- not a big one in the case of a relatively small program, but one that you will eventually encounter as your programs get longer and longer, with more and more entities to represent. Questions now on this use of a class method. MICHAEL: Does the class have to be defined before the main function, in terms of the order of the program? DAVID J. MALAN: A really good question. So when in doubt, let's try this. So let's try to change the order. Let's move main to the top, which I've often encouraged. So let's go ahead and, above the class, do this. And notice now that, technically, line two is mentioning student, which does not exist until line 6 and below. Let me go ahead and clear my terminal and run Python of student.py. So far, so good. Harry-- Gryffindor, OK. Indeed, Harry's from Gryffindor. The reason, Michael, it does not matter in this case is because we're not actually calling main until the very end. And just as in the past, that means that Python has a chance to read everything, top to bottom, left to right. So everything exists. I would say, generally classes are defined at the top of the file. However, it would be even maybe cleaner to move the Classes definition to its own file and then import it, so essentially to make reusable code by putting it into your own module or package so that not just this program but many others can use that definition of student as well. Other questions now on classes, class methods, or the like. AUDIENCE: I wanted to ask, is there a way to declare all the possible-- all the possible attributes of the class? Because it looks so inconsistent. DAVID J. MALAN: Well, so my takeaway there is this is Python's approach to these principles. Different languages, like Java, just take a different approach but have very similar features. The syntax just tends to vary. And this is how the Python community chose to implement this idea. The right mental model, ultimately, is that these instance variables, instant methods belong to or operate on specific objects-- a specific student, a specific hat. Class variables and class methods operate on the entire class itself or, in turn, all objects of that class, which we've not seen a demonstration of, but it's a higher level concept.