So it turns out, besides these class methods, which are distinct from those instance methods, which, to be fair, do not have their own decorator-- they just are, by default, instance method, there's yet other types of Methods You can have in classes in Python. They tend to be called static methods, and they, too, come with another decorator called @static method, which is a rabbit hole we won't go down. But realize that there is yet other functionality that you can leverage within object-oriented programming. But what we thought we'd do is focus really on some final core features that you see not just in Python but other languages as well. And perhaps one of the most compelling features of object-oriented programming that we haven't yet used explicitly-- though it turns out we've seen implicitly over the past weeks-- is this notion of inheritance. It turns out, via object-oriented programming, there's actually an opportunity to design your classes in a hierarchical fashion, whereby you can have one class inherit from or borrow attributes-- that is, methods or variables from another class if they all have those in common. So what do I mean by this here? Well, let me propose that we implement, over in VS Code here, a brand new file called wizard.py. Let me go ahead and run code of wizard.py. And then let's start as before, defining a class called student. And let's go ahead and first define the underscore underscore, init method, which of course, is minimally going to take an argument traditionally called self. And in this case, let's also have it take as before a name and a house. And then in this init method, let's go ahead and assign the instance variables-- self.name = name, and self.house = house. Let's assume that there's some other functionality in this class as well-- dot, dot, dot. But let's move on now to implementing the notion of a professor in the wizarding world as well. So for this class, let's call it Professor. And a professor, let's say, is also going to have its own initialization method. So __ init. It's going to take self-- always as the first argument. A professor also has a name. So we'll pass that in second, too. And even though some professors are heads of houses, let's assume that a professor is really identified by their name and their subject area-- the class that they teach. So we'll call this third argument, subject. Now, as before, let's go ahead and assign self.name = name, and let's assign self.subject = subject here. And as before, let's assume that there's some more functionality associated with professors as well. Well, what do you notice already here in my definitions of students and professors? Typically, we're a bit reluctant to allow for any redundancy in our code. And here, I feel like my init method is taking a name for students; my init method is also taking a name for a professor; and I have these identical lines of code, like self.name = name. And this is only going to get exacerbated if I now go and add some error checking. So for instance, how about if not name, we should probably be in the habit of raising something like a value error in an explanatory message, like "Missing name." And you know what? If a professor is missing their name, I should probably copy, paste that code down here. And that's where red flags should be going off, whereby, as soon as you start copy pasting code, there's probably a better way so that we can write the code once and perhaps reuse it in some way. And here, too, object-oriented programming offers a solution. It turns out that object-oriented programming in Python also supports inheritance, whereby you can define multiple classes that somehow relate to one another. They don't need to exist in parallel in this way. There could actually be some hierarchy between them. So for instance, in the wizarding world, we could argue that both a student and a professor are, at the end of the day, Wizards. So maybe what we should really define is a third class, for instance, called wizard, that has any of the common attributes for students and professors alike. And for now, we've kept it relatively simple. The only thing they have in common is a name and a name, in student and professor, respectively. So why don't we minimally factor that out first? All right, so let me go ahead here. And just to keep things organized, at the top of my file, let's define a third class called Wizard. And a wizard will have its own initialization method. So def __init__(self), as always. And a wizard, let's say for now, is only going to be initialized with their name in this way. And now, I'm going to go ahead and do some of that error checking. So if not name will raise a value error in the wizard class. Otherwise, we'll go ahead and do self name equals name, and, heck, dot, dot, dot, maybe some other functionality as well. But not a subject, which is specific to professors, and not a house, which I've claimed is specific to students. Now, I think we can begin to maybe remove some of the redundancies in our other classes here. So for instance, down with student, why don't I go ahead and remove this error checking here and remove this error-- this assignment of self.name = name because I'm already doing that in Wizard. And similarly, down here, in Professor, why don't I do the same? Let's get rid of the error checking. Let's get rid of self.name = name because, again, I'm doing that already up there for Wizard as well. But at the moment, even though they're all in the same file, I haven't told Python that a student is a wizard and a professor is a wizard. So I really need to link these two together. And the way you can prescribe inheritance, whereby one class should inherit from another, or conversely, one class should descend from another-- we can do this. I can say class Student. But before the colon, I can go in and say in parentheses, a student inherits from, or is a subclass of wizard, which, conversely, is the superclass of the student class. So this just means that, when I define a student class, go ahead and inherit all of the characteristics of a wizard as well. And I'm going to do the same thing for Professor. So (Wizard) after the class name Professor, and that's going to give me access to some of that same functionality. But because my student class and my professor class still have their same init methods, those are the methods that are going to get called. Whenever I create a student in code or I create a professor in code, I need to somehow explicitly say that I also want to use the functionality in the Wizard class's init method. And the way to do this in Python is as follows. Let me go into my init method for Student, and let me call super, with no arguments, which is a reference to the superclass of this class. So if this class is Student, the superclass-- that is, the parent class-- is Wizard. So super() will have the effect of accessing the superclass. And then I'm going to go ahead and explicitly call its init method, and I'm going to pass to the Wizard's init method the name that the student's init method was passed. And I'm going to go ahead and do the same down here in Wizard. This is one line of copy, paste. But I think I'm OK with it here because it's still allowing me to do all of the name assignment and the error checking up in the Wizard class instead. I think we're OK now by just calling super.init for both student and Professor alike. Now, admittedly, this syntax is definitely out there-- the fact that we're calling super in parentheses and dots and underscore underscore on the left and the right of init here, but it's just a combination of these two ideas. super() is a way of programmatically accessing a current class's parent class, or superclass, and __init, of course, is just referring to, now, that class's own initialization method. Now, per the dot, dot, dot-- so there could be a lot more going on in these classes. But what's nice now is that Wizard as a class is taking care of all of the assignment of a wizard's name, whether that wizard is a student or a professor. And it's even doing some error checking to make sure the name was actually passed in. Meanwhile, student is inheriting all of that functionality and using it by calling the superclass's own init method. But it's additionally taking the house, that's presumably passed into the student constructor function, and assigning it to its own instance variable-- self.house, and similarly, professor, or restoring in self.subject the subject that was passed into that one as well. Now, how might we use these classes? Well, we'll continue to wave our hands with a little bit of detail here. But at the bottom of this file, or any other file that imports this one, I could now write code like this. I could create a student variable and assign it the return value of the student constructor call. and maybe that student is named Harry and that student's house, for instance, might be Gryffindor. And meanwhile, I might do something like this. professor = Professor over here. And notice, the lowercase S on the left, capital S on the right. Same for professor on the left-- lowercase and uppercase on the right respectively. Professor, quote, unquote, "Severus," and how about Defense Against the Dark Arts will be his subject? And meanwhile, if we want, more generically, just a wizard, who, at the moment is neither student nor professor teaching classes actively, we could even do that. We could do wizard = Wizard in capital W on the right-hand side of the equal sign, because it's the name of the class. And someone like Albus-- passing in only Albus's name-- not a house, not a subject, because, in this case, he's known only as a wizard. Meanwhile, with each of these calls, this line of code here will ensure that the init method for the wizard class is called. This line of code here will ensure that the init method of the student class and, in turn, the init method of the superclass wizard is called. And then lastly, on this final line of code, will this syntax ensure that the init method of the professor class is called, which, in turn, calls the init method of the superclass as well. Any questions now on this idea of inheritance, which is a key feature of a lot of object-oriented programming languages?  MICHAEL: From what I've seen so far, a lot of times, there's a lot of nesting. If you do super, does it go one up? Is there any situation where it's nested in another class as well, above Wizard, let's say? DAVID J. MALAN: A really good question. If you were to have a super superclass-- so your hierarchy is even taller than the two levels of hierarchy that we currently have, absolutely. What's nice about inheritance, as the name implies, is, just as you might have inherited certain traits as a human from your grandfather and grandmother or your great-grandfather or great-grandmother, some of those properties can actually trickle down to you in the context of code as well. So when you descend from another class-- that is, when you subclass a superclass or a super superclass, you actually do inherit all of the functionality, not just from one level above you but from two or three, so you can indeed access some of that functionality as well. And you can even override it if you want some of these classes to behave a little bit differently than others. Other questions on inheritance. AUDIENCE: So it's similar to the last one, but can you have two parents on the same level? DAVID J. MALAN: A really good question. So there are ways to implement descendants from multiple parents. And there's different ways to do this, not just in Python but other languages. We've kept things simple here, though, by having a single inheritance path. A good question. How about one more question on inheritance? AUDIENCE: Can we have multiple arguments in super.__init? DAVID J. MALAN: Yes, but in this case, I'm only passing a name on line 18, and I'm only passing in name on line 10. Why? Because, on line 2, when I define the init method for the Wizard class, I only expect a single argument. But I could absolutely have other common functionality. I could add in a patronus. If both students and professors have patronuses that can come out of their wands, I could have two arguments instead. We've been using this feature of object-oriented programming now for quite some time in the form of exceptions. Indeed, if you look at the official documentation for exceptions in Python, you'll see that there's not even the ones we've seen in class, like value error and others. There's any number of others as well, but they are all, themselves, hierarchical in nature. This is just a subset of the available exceptions that come built into Python. And you can actually, as a programmer, create your own exceptions as well. But as this chart here captures hierarchically, all exceptions we've seen thus far actually descend from or inherit from superclasses already. So for instance, at the bottom of this list here is ValueError, which we've seen quite a bit. And if you follow the line straight up on this ascii rendition of this chart, you'll see that ValueError has a parent, class, or superclass, called exception. And the exception class, meanwhile, has a parent class called base exception. Why did the authors of Python do this? Well, it turns out that, whether you have a value error or a key error or an assertion error or any number of others, there's a lot of functionality common to all of those types of errors that you want-- that you want a programmer to be able to use. And so it turns out that the authors of Python decided, you know what? Let's not have a dozen or more different classes that all just have copy, pasted similar functionality. Let's create this hierarchy so that, even though the exceptions toward the bottom of this list are very precise, they at least inherit-- that is, borrow some very common functionality up above. So it turns out that, when you use the Try and the Accept keyword in Python, generally speaking, we've tried to catch very specific exceptions, like ValueError. But technically, you could capture the parents or even the grandparent exception for a given exception, especially if you're not necessarily sure which one is going to get raised. Or, better yet, there could be many exceptions that get raised, but you want to handle them all the same, and you don't want to necessarily enumerate them in parentheses, separated by commas. You want to say you want to handle all exceptions of a certain superclass in much the same way. So this has been latent this whole time, any time we've seen or used or caught or, now, raised exceptions, and built into Python is this hierarchy. And if you were to invent your own exception, generally, you wouldn't want to start from scratch. You would want to descend from-- that is, subclass, one of these existing exceptions and add your own twist on it, your own functionality as well.