Well, there's one final feature of object oriented programming that we'd like to share with you today, and then it will perhaps be quite the eye opener as to what you can really do now that you have classes at your disposal. And this, too, surprise, has been a feature you and I have been taking for granted for weeks now. This has just worked, but it's been implemented in a way that you can now leverage yourself. It turns out that Python, and some other languages, too, support this notion of operator overloading, whereby you can take very common symbols, like plus or minus or other such syntax on the keyboard, and you can implement your own interpretation thereof. Plus does not have to equal addition. And minus does not have to equal subtraction. And in fact, you and I have already seen another context in which plus means something else. Plus has not always, in Python, meant addition, per se. What else has Python used plus for? AUDIENCE: Concatenation? DAVID J. MALAN: For concatenation. For joining two strings, for adding to a list can you use plus as well. So plus has actually been, funny enough, overloaded by the authors of Python for us. And so we can use the same symbol in much the same way as addition but with different data types to solve slightly different problems. Well, let me propose that we go back over to VS Code here, and let me go ahead and create a new final file called vault.py. So code of vault.py. And let me propose that we implement the idea of a vault at Gringotts, keeping on theme, wherein there's a bank in the world of Harry Potter. And within this bank, families and individuals have vaults containing all sorts of money in the wizarding world. And the type of money that exists in the world of Harry Potter are coins called galleons and sickles and Knuts, and those are in descending order of value. And so inside of a vault might be a whole bunch of coins-- gold, silver, and bronze, essentially, each in those denominations, tucked away. So how can I go about implementing, first of all, the idea of a vault so that I can store, for instance, for Harry Potter, how much coinage is in his family's vault, or for Ron Weasley the same? Well, let me go ahead and vault.py and first create a class called Vault, essentially meant to represent a bank vault. Perfect, another real world, or fantasy world, entity that I want to represent with code. I could use a tuple or a list or a dictionary. But again, I'm going to get a lot more functionality with classes, and we'll see one final flourish with operators. Inside of this vault class, let's go ahead and do this. Let me define my init method, taking its first argument of self. And let me define three arguments to this. When you create a vault, in my code here, I want to be able to initialize it with some number of galleons, some number of sickles and, some number of Knuts. I want the user, the programmer, to be able to pass in one or more of those values ideally. But they can be optional, so I'll give them defaults. So let's go ahead and define a parameter called galleons, whose default value will be 0; sickles, whose default value will also be 0; and knuts, whose default value will be 0 as well. So the programmer can pass in one or two or three or even none of those, and they'll all have some implied defaults. How do I want to remember those values that are passed in? Well, let me do this. self.galleons = galleons. And self.sickles = sickles. And self.knuts = knuts. And so I could add some error checking, especially if you don't pass in. A number I could turn these into properties to do even more validation. But let's keep it simple and, as always, focus only on the new ideas. So I'm just going to trust that these values were passed in, and I'm going to immediately assign them to these instance variables. What, now, do I want to do? Well, let's come up with a way of printing out what is in someone's vault, ultimately. But first let's do this. Let's create a vault for the Potters by creating, via assignment, a new vault. And let's say that the potters have 100 galleons, 50 sickles, and 24 knuts. And that's in that vault. And let's print out, for instance, potter. All right, let's run this code and see how it works now. Let me go ahead and run Python of vault.py, Enter. Seems to work. No syntax errors or anything else. But this is not very enlightening. How do I fix this, thinking back to what we've done before? AUDIENCE: You have to use the __str. DAVID J. MALAN: Exactly. I need to use one of those special methods that comes with classes and define for myself how I want a vault to be printed as a string. So let me go ahead and do that. Let me define the str method taking in self as its sole argument here. And let's just return a very simple string that just reveals what's in the vault. So I'm going to return a formatted f string, inside of which is self.galleons and then the word galleon, so I know which those are. Then let's do self.sickles, and let's output the word, sickles. And then lastly let's output self.knuts, and then knuts here. So I know, in this string, just how many of each of those coins I have in this particular family's vault. All right, let me go ahead and run Python of vault.py, changing nothing else except the str method. And now, , we, see indeed that Harry has 100 galleons, 50 sickles, and 25 knuts. All right, well, let's do one thing more here. Below that, let's go ahead and define a Weasley variable. And Ron never seemed to have quite as much money in the vault as did Harry. So let's say that the Weasley vault will have 25, 50, and 100. So I'll just reverse the order of those denominations, rather than Harry's 100, 50, 25. And now let me go ahead and print Weasley like this. And let's go ahead and clear my terminal window, run Python of vault.py. This time, that str method will be invoked twice, once for each of those vault objects. And we'll see, indeed, that the first one for Harry has got 100, 50, and 25, respectively, versus Ron's 25, 50, and 100, respectively. But now let's do something interesting. Suppose that you wanted to combine the contents of two vaults, be it Harry's and Ron's or any other two people. How would you go about doing this in code? Well, if I wanted to combine the vaults for someone, I could do this. Well, I could do galleons equals-- let's do potter.galleons + weasley.galleons. That gives me a variable called galleons that has the sum of Harry and Ron's galleons. Let's next do sickles = potter.sickles + weasley.sickles. And then lastly, let's do knuts = potter.knuts + weasley.knuts. I've got three variables. What can I now do with these values? Well, let's create a third-- a new vault. Total will be the name of this variable equals a new vault, Capital V, notice. And now, let's pass in those three new variables-- galleons, sickles, and knuts. And that's it, and let's print out this total vault. So we should now see three vaults-- one for Harry, for Ron, and the combination-- the addition of the two. Let me go ahead and rerun Python of vault.py, and there we have it. What was 100, 50, 25 and 25, 50, and 100, combined through addition now, is 125, 100, 125. So pretty straightforward, using techniques from weeks ago, where we're just declaring a few new variables and doing some addition. But wouldn't it be cool if I could do something like this? Wouldn't it be cool if I could just somehow, not manually create my own vault and do all of this annoying math up here-- what if I could just do potter + weasley and get rid of all of this logic here? Wouldn't it be nice if I overload the operator-- we know as plus, just like str does, just like list does-- to allow me to add two vaults together on the left and the right. Well, it turns out in Python and through operator overloading, there is a way to do just this. If you consult the documentation, there's this and so many other special methods that come with classes. The third one we'll see here is this one here-- __add__. And you'll see that it very generically is described in the documentation is working for any object, be it a vault or str or a list or something else. By convention, it's going to take a first argument called self, and then it's going to take some other argument, by convention, called other. self, in effect, is going to be referring to whatever object is on the left of a plus sign. other is going to be referring to whatever is on the right-hand side of a plus sign, thereby giving us a way of describing, in code, the operand on the left and the operand on the right of the operator, plus, in between. That is to say, if I go back to VS Code here, what I'm trying to do is implement support for this. Well, let me try, without writing any other code just yet-- Python of vault.py, Enter-- TypeError: unsupported operand type(s) for +: 'Vault' and 'vault.' That is to say Python, at this moment, does not know what it means to add two vaults together. You and I might have an instinct. Probably want to combine the galleons and the sickles and the knuts respectively. Python doesn't know that. It just knows that you have a new class called Vault. But let's teach Python to do this. Let me clear my terminal window. Let me scroll back up to the class itself, where, at the moment, I only have two special methods-- init and str. But let's add this third. Let me go into the class here and define __add__ and then specify its first parameter as self, as before, and then a second parameter for this particular method called, by convention, other. Now, as always, I could name those parameters anything I want, but I'm going to stick with convention here. And now, inside of this method, am I going to have to now add together the contents of two vaults? Well, what two vaults? Well, if we scroll down to our goal at hand, the goal, of course, is to add this vault plus this other vault-- potter plus weasley, respectively. Well, it turns out, in Python, that, when you do overload an operator like plus, what's going to happen automatically, as soon as Python sees that, is it's going to call that __add__ method, and it's going to pass into it to arguments-- whatever the operand is on the left-- potter, in this case-- and whatever the operand is on the right-- weasley, in this case. And those values are going to get passed in as self and other, respectively. What that means is that we can access their contents up here in our implementation of add as follows. Let me go ahead and define a local variable called galleons and set that equal to, for instance, the sum of self.galleons-- whatever's in Potter's vault in this case, plus whatever is in Wesley's vault in this case, which would be other.galleons. Let me do the same for sickles. self.sickles + other.sickles. And let me lastly do that for knuts. So self.knuts + other.knuts. But at the end of the day, I'm going to need to return a brand new bigger vault that contains all of those contents together. And if we ultimately want to assign that bigger vault to a variable like total here, on the left, we'd better return a value from this add method. So I'm going to go ahead and give myself a brand new vault, as by returning capital Vault, which of course, is going to call my vault function into which I can now pass some of those initialization arguments. Well, how many galleon, sickles, and knuts do I want this brand new vault to contain? Well, I want it to contain this many galleons this many sickles, and this many knuts. So ultimately, what we're doing in this implementation of add is adding together those galleons, sickles, and knuts, passing them to the vault function so that we get a brand new bigger vault, and return that altogether. So now I've defined this new special method called add that should now just make plus work for two vaults. Let's see. Let me run down to my terminal window, Python of vault.py and hit Enter. And voila, and now we've implemented an overloaded operator, plus, to do what you and I as humans would hope would be the case when you add two vaults together. But I've now written the code more specifically to teach Python what it means concretely to add two vaults together. And it's with very similar code in effect, underneath the hood, that Python is doing this for two strings, to concatenate them together, to joining two lists into a new list with list, and so many other classes as well. Any questions now on operator overloading or this example here. AUDIENCE: How would you go about creating a function for adding a student and a vault for two separate classes? Would that be possible? DAVID J. MALAN: Let me see what happens here. I don't know offhand. Let's do this. Let's create a str and see what happens. If I add Potter plus a str-- str object. Yeah, so it would work. I'm just figuring this out as I go here, Eric. So just to be clear, what I did was I just changed weasley to str just to see what would happen when I add a vault plus a str, and it will work, theoretically. Why? Because so long as the type of value on the left has an add method implemented, other can be any type that you want. You just have to decide and code what it's going to mean conceptually to add a vault plus a string, which, in this case, probably doesn't make any sense at all, but it's possible. It's going to be the operand on the left. And I'm inferring that. I did not know the answer a moment ago. I'm inferring that because what I got was an attribute error here on line 11 because Python did not like this. other.galleons didn't work, but I could make it work by figuring something out. Really good question. Didn't know that one myself. Other questions on operator overloading? AUDIENCE: Can you define new operators in Python? DAVID J. MALAN: I don't think so. There is a very long but precise list of operators that you can overload. I do not believe you can assign arbitrary characters to be operators in Python. Let me defer to Carter in the chat to-- OK, I'm seeing two of my colleagues are saying, no, not possible. So I'm going to go with my first instinct, no. Otherwise, that'd be kind of cool. You could make emoji do whatever you want to. How about one final question on operator overloading? AUDIENCE: Is that the only operation you can do as far as-- can you do a subtraction as well? DAVID J. MALAN: You can. You can do so many others let me. If, Carter, you don't mind pulling up this URL here-- so this link here-- special method names and today's slides, you'll see a long list of all of the operators that you can overload. You can do less than, equals than, plus equals, minus equals. Pretty much any symbol you've seen me type on the screen can be overloaded in the context of classes. So even though, today, we focused entirely on object-oriented programming, this is a technique that we've been using, really, since the first week of the class because those ints, those strs, those floats, those lists, those dictionaries, and so much more were already underneath the hood this whole time-- classes and objects thereof. But you now, as a programmer, have the ability to create your own classes with your own instance or class variables, with your own instance or class methods, with your own properties, and even with your own custom behavior for operators. So ultimately, you can absolutely continue using those simple tuples or lists or those dictionaries or other structures as well. But object-oriented programming, and with it, classes and now these objects is just another tool in your toolkit. And daresay, as your code gets more sophisticated and your problems get bigger, you'll find that being able to model these real world or even fantasy world entities with classes and related data and functionality will ultimately just allow you to define code that's not just correct but ever well-designed as well. This was CS50.  