So what's another approach I can take here? it turns out in Python, there is another keyword that we haven't yet used, which is this here, assert. Assert is a keyword in Python and some other languages as well that allow you to do exactly that, as in English, to assert that something is true, to sort of boldly claim that something is true. And if it is, nothing's going to happen. No errors are going to appear on the screen. 

But if you assert something in Python, and it is not true, that is, the thing you're insert asserting, a Boolean expression, is false, you're actually going to see some kind of error on the screen. So let's go ahead and try this new keyword as follows. Let me go back to my code here. And just to make it a little simpler, let me propose that I use this new keyword as follows. 

Let me simply assert that the square of 2 should equal 4. So I've changed my logic. Instead of checking for not equals, I'm now asserting very loudly that it should equal 4. And then on one additional line, let me do the other test, assert that the square of 3 equals equals 9. And that's it, no indented print. I'm just going to assert more simply these two things that I want to be true. 

Let me go ahead now, with calculator.py still broken. I'm still using plus accidentally, instead of multiplication. Let me go ahead now and run Python of test calculator.py, crossing my fingers as always, but it's not going to go well this time. A whole lot of errors seem to appear on the screen. And if I scroll up here for this traceback, we'll see that the thing that failed was this line here, assert square(3) == 9. 

Now unfortunately, when you're using the assert keyword, it's not terribly user friendly. It shows you the files and the line numbers involved, but it does show you the specific line of code that failed, the assertion that failed, so to speak. It's now kind of up to you and me to infer from this, wait a minute, why is the square root 3 not equal to 9? So it's not super user friendly, but honestly, it was half as much code for me to write. It's just two lines, instead of those previous four. 