But notice this little remnant down here. This was an assertion error. And we have seen errors before. We've seen errors before when we've made other mistakes in our code. And in the past, what was our solution for catching those errors? How do we catch errors that seem to resemble this, even though we've not seen this one before? 

SPEAKER 2: Try and except. 

DAVID MALAN: Yeah, in Python, we can use the try and except keywords to try to do something, optimistically, except if something goes wrong, do something else instead. So this is a step forward, in that I can at least catch this error. But it's going to be perhaps a step backward, in that I'm going to end up writing, I'll admit in advance, a little more code instead. 

So let me go ahead and try this. Let me go back into my code here. And instead of just asserting, blindly, let me go ahead, as Tola proposed, and try to do this first assertion, except if there is an assertion error, like we saw a moment ago, then go ahead and print out something more user friendly that explains what actually failed. 2 squared was not 4. And let me go ahead similarly and try to assert that the square of 3 equals 9, except if there's an assertion error there, in which case, I'm going to print out, more user friendly, 3 squared was not 9. 

So I've taken a step forward, but also a step back, because now I have more code. But I have at least introduced assertions and exceptions in a manner consistent with how we've seen in the past. When something goes wrong, you actually see an exception raised. Let me go ahead and run this version of the program now instead. Python of test calculator.py, crossing my fingers, it's still failed, because I'm seeing output. But we're back to at least user friendly output. 

So that's at least progress in some way here. But it's, again, more code than might have been ideal. And in fact, if we continue this further, what if we actually want to add additional test cases here as well? It seems like we might end up writing way more code than would be ideal. For instance, I'm testing 2 and 3 now. I should probably test some negative numbers as well. 

So why don't I go ahead and add in, for instance-- let me go ahead and copy and paste this. Let me try to assert that the square root of negative 2 equals equals 4, which should be the case mathematically. And if not, let me go ahead and change this to say negative 2 squared was not 4. And let me go ahead and copy paste this again, test another negative number, just for good measure. Let's test the square root of negative 3, which should equal 9. But if it doesn't, let's go ahead and say that negative 3 squared was not 9. 

And just to think aloud here, what might be another good value to test? I've tried 2. I've tried 3. I've tried negative 2. I've tried negative 3. I can't try infinite numbers. But there's at least something that's a little different in between those values. Let's try 0. 0 is an interesting case too, just in case something might be wrong. And why 0? I'm just going with instincts here. 

Odds are positive numbers are generally going to behave the same. Negative numbers might generally behave the same. 0 might be a little anomalous. There's no science to it necessarily, but rather considering for yourself based on your own experience, what are the potential corner cases based on the function you're trying to test? I'm trying to test something mathematical, so I want to test representative values. 

So let me go ahead and paste in one more try except block. Let's assert that the square of 0 should equal 0. And if not, I'll say something explanatory, like 0 squared was not 0. Now if I go ahead and run this, Python of test_calculator.py, and hit Enter, now I see multiple errors. And this is interesting. It's a bit of a clue, because notice that some, but not all, of these assertions are failing. 

The 1 for 2 squared is apparently OK, as we noted earlier. Recall that 2 squared happens to be 2 plus 2. So that bug doesn't really throw off our test, but it's a good thing we tested for 3. It's a good thing we tested for negative 2 and negative 3, because all of those tests caught this error. The 0 test did not notice, because 0 squared is, of course, 0, but 0 plus 0 is 0. So we're getting lucky or unlucky there, depending on how you view the glass as half full or half empty here. We at least by way of having multiple tests caught this mistake somehow. 

So it would be nice, though, if we weren't writing so much darn code here, because notice what I've done. I have try, except, try, except. I have all of these assertions. I have a main function. I have this if conditional at the bottom of my file. Honestly, who's going to want to write 31 lines of code now just to test a two line function? No one's going to write test code like this if we're all writing so much more code to do the actual testing. 