Allow me to propose that we consider what should happen if square isn't actually passed a number. For instance, if I go back to calculator.py, and suppose that I, or perhaps someone else using my square function, simply forgets to convert the return value of input from a str to an int, as by modifying line to here. 

Now, something's definitely going to go wrong if I type in a str instead of what appears to be an int. For instance, if I clear my terminal here, run Python of calculator.py and hit Enter-- let's type in cat as our value for x-- and of course, this raises now a type error. Why? Can't multiply sequence by non-int of type 'str.' What does that mean? You can't do cat times cat, because indeed, square is expecting that end will be some number. 

But that doesn't necessarily mean that square itself is buggy. But this does mean that if I expect a type error to be raised, let's test for that too, so that I know the behavior indeed works as expected. So let me go back to test_calculator.py, and let me go in add a fourth test down here. How about define test underscore, and I'll call this test_str, because I'm going to specifically and deliberately pass in a str for testing. 

And I want to in spirit assert that passing in something like cat to square will raise a type error. But we don't use the assert keyword for that. Rather, we need this. Let me go to the top of this file, and let me additionally import the pytest library itself, because it turns out there's a function in that library called raises that allows me to express that I expect an exception to be raised. 

And I can express that as follows with pytest.raises, and then in parentheses I can pass in the type of exception I expect, which is going to be a type error in this case. And now when do I expect that type error to be raised? Whenever I do something like calling square and passing in not a number, but something like cat. So now if I go back to my terminal window, run pytest of test calculator.py, this time having four tests, I should see that all four now are successful. 