So what are the mechanisms via which we can do this? So Help 50 is one of the tools that CS50 itself provides you with. And let's go ahead and take a look at a quick example that allows us to use this tool. I'm going to go ahead and open up my CS50 Sandbox here. I'm going to go ahead and create a program called Buggy 0.C, knowing in advance that I'm going to make a mistake here. 

And I'm going to go ahead and do main void, as do all of my programs begin. And I'm going to go ahead and do printf hello world backslash n semicolon. All right, so that's buggy 0.c. And again, even though I could run the Clang commands, henceforth I'm just going to run things like Make. So make buggy 0 Enter. And all right, here's the first of my errors. 

Let me just increase the size of my terminal window, focusing as always, always on the first error, which is the one in red here. Implicitly declaring library function printf with type int const char *w, error-- I mean, there's a lot there. There's a lot to digest, even though by now, you might recognize at least some of these symbols. But suppose you don't, and you want help understanding this message. Short of asking a human for help, someone who's more familiar, you can instead do this. Rerun the same command as before, but prefix it with help 50 and hit Enter. And what will happen is we will run make for you again. We will look at the output of make, cryptic though it might be to you, run it through our own Help 50 software and look for messages we understand. 

And if we recognize one of the error messages in your output, we're going to highlight in yellow a message like this-- buggy zero, dot C3 colon 5, error, implicitly declaring library function printf with type, dot, dot, dot. Did you forget to include standard Io dot h and with printf is declared at the top of your file. So that's, in this case, the exact answer. And so now, you'll just see that not only are we still showing you the error, we're highlighting where it is. And in fact, buggy zero, dot c, line 3, character 5, or column 5, is just one way of now homing in on what the issue is. 