But the catch is that if a variable only has a name, like s, or name, or any of the variables you use for p-set one's problems, it turns out we all need to decide as human programmers how do we know where the string ends? 

The name of the variable, suffice it to say, lets us know where the variable begins, just as I've drawn here. If you reference a variable in a program and call it s, the computer will just know to go to the first character in that string. But there needs to be a little clue to the computer as to where the string ends, and that clue is what's called a null character. It's a little funky to look at, but it's just a backslash zero, which might remind you of backslash n, which too is a little funky, and that's a special symbol that says move the cursor to the next line, give a new line. Backslash zero is the so-called null character or the null terminating character. And all that is special syntax for eight zero bits. 

So each of these boxes represents h bits. This is number 72. This is the number 73. This is the number 33. This backslash zero is just the way of drawing all eight bits as zeros. So that's what a computer uses in C to demarcate the end of a string. It just wastes one byte as all zero bits. And I say waste, because you know what? How much space does H-I exclamation point actually take up accordingly? How many bytes do you need to store hi? 

AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] 

DAVID MALAN: Three, well, four, because you need to know where the string ends, otherwise you won't be able to distinguish the beginnings of other variables, potentially, in your computer's memory. And we'll see this in just a moment. So if my string is called s, it turns out that at s bracket zero is the first character. S bracket one is the second character. s bracket two is the third. And that null character, so to speak, the invisible backslash zero or eight zero bits happens to be at the end. So a string that's of length three, actually takes up four bytes. Any string you have typed into a computer yet, whether it's hi, or David, or Brian, or Emma, or Rodrigo, takes up as many characters as are in those names, plus one byte for this special null terminating character. 