So where can we go from this? So we're going to use this now to solve a number of problems, that of readability, for instance. You might recall this paragraph here. Mr. And Mr. Durst-- "Mr. And Mrs. Dursley of number 4 Privet Drive were proud to say that they were perfectly normal, thank you very much. They were the last people you'd expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious, because they just didn't hold with such nonsense," and so forth. So from the very first Harry Potter in the Philosopher's Stone, if you were to run the entirety of that book through a program written in C, that analyzes its readability, you would be informed that the grade level for that book is estimated at grade 7. So you can read it well and comfortably if you're a human in grade 7. Why is that the case? 

Well, the program, as is conventional in software, would analyze like the number of words in the sentence, the lengths of your words, how big the words are that you're using. There's a number of heuristics that are not perfectly correlated with readability, but they are-- they're not perfectly aligned with readability, but they do correlate with readability. So the bigger the words, the bigger the sentences, and more likely the older you should be to actually read that text effectively. 

Now something like this. "In computational linguistics, authorship attribution is the task of predicting the author of a document of unknown authorship. This task is generally performed by the analysis of style metric features, particular characteristics of an author's writing that can be used to identify his or her works in contrast with the works of other authors." If you were to run that through the same program and see, otherwise known as Brian's senior thesis, you would get grade 16, because he uses a lot bigger words, longer sentences, more elegant prose. 

It turns out that this program in C to which I allude, will exist in a week, because for the first problem on the problem-- one of the problems on the problem set will you implement a readability analysis. But it all boils down to taking in text as inputs, such as Harry Potter or Brian's text, analyzing the lengths of the words, looking for the spaces, and so forth, and deciding how advanced that text is.