But we're also going to challenge you with this, this notion of cryptography, the art of scrambling information to keep it private. And cryptography might work, just like in week zero, as having inputs and outputs, where the input is the message you want to send safely to someone else. The output is some kind of scrambled version thereof, the equivalent of, like in grade school, maybe writing a little love note to someone and passing it through the class to the recipient. And you don't want the teacher, if they intercept it, to be able to understand the message, so it's somehow scrambled or encrypted, so to speak. 

In cryptography, the input is called plaintext, and the output is called cipher text. So if we were, for instance, to say something like hi exclamation point, recall that, that of course can be represented in Ascii as three numbers-- 72, 73, and 33. Well, it turns out, if we want to send a fancier message, a longer one, we can just look at all of those numeric equivalents, do some mathematics on them, and effectively scramble them. But we need a key. You and I need to decide in advance, sender and recipient, what is the secret we're going to use to kind of jumble the letters up so as to encrypt it without a teacher or a classmate intercepting and decrypting it. 

Suppose, very simply and probably foolishly, our secret number is one. You and I both green one is our secret and we're going to use one to scramble the information as follows. If I want to say, I love you, and send this across an insecure medium, like a roomful of people, well I might first convert each of these letters to their Ascii equivalents just by looking them up on AsciiChart.com or doing it in code, then I might go ahead and start adding one to each of those letters, because that is the secret on which you and I have agreed, and then I'll convert it back to the characters as by casting it from an int to a char so that the message I actually write on my piece of paper, or send in my program, looks like this. So that if a teacher or a classmate intercepts it, they see this, but you know, I love you. And so, with that said, will you be doing your readability and cryptography and more? That's it for week two, and we'll see you next time. 