

With that said, allow me to propose that we take a turn toward, yet, another package that's particularly popular and just as easy to install all toward an end of using APIs. Now, APIs are not something that's Python-specific. More generally, an API is an application programming interface. And it can refer to Python files and functions. But often, APIs really refer to third-party services that you and I can write code that talk to. 

Many APIs, but not all, live on the internet these days so that so long as you have a browser or so long as you have some experience with Python programming or programming in any language, you can write code that in effect pretends to be a browser, connects to that third-party API on a server, and download some data that you can then incorporate into your own program. 

Now, how do you do this? Well, Python has a very popular package that you can install via pip called requests. The requests library allows you to make web request, internet request using Python code essentially as though you were a browser yourself. You can automate, therefore, the retrieval of URLs that start with HTTP or HTTPS. 

The documentation for this library is that a URL like this, but it too can be installed at the command line. And even though it's third party, it's one of the most popular and commonly used packages out there in Python. And this too is one of the reasons again that Python is so popular. There's just so many solutions to problems that you and I have or are invariably going to have when we write projects of our own. There's just a really vibrant ecosystem, a really vibrant community of open source software that's that easy for us to install. 

Let me go back to my terminal window now and run pip install requests in order to install this package on my own system. And after some lines of output, I'll see that it's successfully installed. Now, let's go ahead and create a new file here. For instance, itunes.py. It turns out that Apple has its own API for their iTunes service. The software that provides you with the ability to download and search for music and songs and other information as well. 

And it turns out that-- let me go back over to my computer here and open up a browser like Chrome. And let me go ahead and visit this URL here, https://itunes.apple.com/ search?entity=song&limit=1&term=weezer. Search?entity=song& limit=1&term=weezer. 

Now, I constructed this URL manually by reading the documentation for Apple's API-- application programming interface for iTune. And what they told me is that if I want to search for information about songs in their database, I should specify entity equals song so that songs and not albums or artists or something like that. If I just want to get back information on one song, I'm going to provide limit equals 1. And if the band I want to search for, the artist is Weezer, I should specify term equals Weezer. 

So with this, if I go ahead and hit Enter and visit this URL, I actually end up with a text file in my Downloads folder on my Mac. If I go ahead and open that text file that my browser just downloaded, we'll see all of this text here, which at first glance might look a bit cryptic, but it actually follows a pattern. 

Notice this curly brace at the start and notice this closed curly brace at the end. Notice this open square bracket here and notice this closed square bracket here. And in between those pieces of syntax are a whole bunch of strings and values. In fact, a whole bunch of key value pairs. What we're looking at here is a standard text format known as JSON-- JavaScript Object Notation, which yes, is technically related to yet, another programming language called JavaScript. But JSON itself is typically used nowadays as a language agnostic format for exchanging data between computers. 

By language agnostic, I mean you don't have to use JavaScript. You can use Python or any other language to read JSON or write it as well. And it's a completely text-based format, which means that if I visit that URL with my browser, what gets downloaded is just a bunch of text. 

But that text is formatted in a standard way using curly braces and square bracket using quotes and some colons that ultimately contains all of the information in Apple's database on Weezer's song, at least, the first one because I limited it to one in their database. And that's an API, an application programming interface. A mechanism whereby I can access data on someone else's server and somehow integrate it into my own program. 

Now, of course, my browser, Chrome, is not something I wrote. I should actually write some Python code that perhaps pretends to be a browser to grab this same data. So let's do that. Let me go back to VS Code here. And let me write a program with code, itunes.py. And we're going to write some code via which I can then use the iTunes API and in turn, Python to get information about any band that I might want. 

I'm going to go here and import first the requests library, which I installed earlier in order to make those HTTP requests. I'm going to go ahead and import the sys library via which I'll have the ability to use command line arguments like specification of the band that I want to search for if not Weezer. And then down here, I'm going to go ahead and insert some error checking to say if the length of sys.argv does not equal to-- so if the user does not provide me with the name of the file they want to run and the name of a band, and that's it, you know what. Let's just go ahead and exit for now. 

I could provide a more explanatory message. But for now, I'm going to keep things simple and just exit the program prematurely so that I can trust hereafter that sys.argv has what I want. And now, I have the opportunity to use the requests library to write some Python code that effectively is pretending to be a web browser so as to connect to that same HTTPS URL on Apple's own server. 

So now that I've guaranteed that the user has typed in not just the name of the file, but also the name of a band at the prompt giving me a length of two for sys.argv, let's go ahead and execute request stockget, which is a function inside of the request package that will literally get some response from a server. And the URL that I want to get is the exactly the same as before. https://itunes.apple.com/ search?entity=song& limit=1& term=previouslyweezer. 

But let's make this program a little interactive and actually allow the human to specify at the command line what artists they'd like to search for. So I'm going to go ahead and close my quote early and just append using the concatenation operator as in the past, sys.argv bracket1. 

And now, it actually be nice to store the response from the server in a variable. So I'm going to go ahead and say response equals and to store all of the response that comes back from the server in a variable called response. Down here now, I'd like to just understand what the server's returning to me to make sure I know how next to proceed. 

So this isn't going to be very pretty yet. But I'm going to go and print out response.json, which ensures that the data I'm getting back is formatted on my screen as exactly that, JSON, the same text format as we saw on my screen. It's not a useful program yet. I'm really just learning along the way. But let me go ahead now and increase the size of my terminal window and run Python of itunes.py and type in the name of a band like Weezer and hit Enter. 

And what we see on the screen formatted almost the same as before is exactly that same text. But what you'll see here is that this has been standardized now as a Python dictionary. What indeed Apple's returning is technically a JSON response, JavaScript Object Notation. But Python, the request library is converting it to a Python dictionary which happens to use wonderfully coincidentally, almost the same syntax. 

It uses curly braces to represent the dictionary here and a close curly brace to represent the end of it here. For any lists therein, it uses a square bracket here and a closed square bracket down here. It uses quotes-- single quotes in this case or equivalently double quotes to represent the keys in that dictionary. And after a colon, it stores the value of that key. 

And so you'll see that indeed we have a result count key whose value is 1, but then a more interesting Result key called results whose value is this entire list of data. Now, honestly, this is such a big blob of text that it's going to take me forever to wrap my mind around what I'm seeing. So let me propose temporarily we use another library in Python that will allow me to format my data a little more cleanly. 

It turns out that Python also comes with a special library called JSON that allows you to manipulate JSON data and even just printy print it that is formatted in a way that's going to be way easier for you and I to understand. So let me go back to my code here. Let me shrink my terminal window. And let me propose that just temporarily again we do this. 

Let me import this additional library, JSON, which comes with Python. So I don't need to install it manually with pip. And let me go ahead now and not just print out response.json which was that big blob of hard-to-understand text. Let me go ahead and use one other function here called json.dumps for dump string and pass to that function that response.json return value. 

So again, I'm just introducing another function who I claim has a purpose in life of pretty printing, nicely formatting on the screen the exact same information. And I know this from the documentation having done this before. But I'd like things to be nicely indented. And according to the documentation, if I pass in a named parameter of indent equals 2, that's going to indent everything at least two spaces. I could do four or something else. But it's going to be enough to help me wrap my mind around what the data is I'm getting back. Because again, I'm just learning along with you. 

So let me increase the size of my terminal window again. Let me run Python of itunes.py. And again, let's search for Weezer and hit Enter. And now, notice it's still a little bit cryptic because there's a lot going on here. But my gosh, I can totally read this more easily now. 

Notice now that I still see the first curly brace, which means hey, this is a dictionary in Python. A collection of keys and values. The first key is called result count. It happens to be displayed in double quotes now. But that's just an issue of formatting. It could be double or single so long as we're consistent. 

The value of that key is one. Why? Well, I told the URL to only limit the responses to one Weezer song so I've gotten a result set of one. If I increase that limit, I could probably get more. Then the interesting part of this response is really the data itself. Notice in the results key here, there's a really big value. The value is a Python list as implied by this square bracket. 

What does this list contain? Well, I know from skimming it earlier that this contains one dictionary. And that's why we see another curly brace here. So again, if this gets a little more complicated, keep in mind that a dictionary is just a collection of key value pairs. And Python uses curly braces to indicate as much. 

It is perfectly reasonable for a dictionary to be inside of another dictionary if the value of some key itself is another dictionary. So this is a common paradigm. And even though it might seem a bit cryptic, it's just something that allows us to associate more keys with more value. 

Now, most of this information, I probably don't care about. For instance, according to Apple, the unique identifier for Weezer is apparently 115,234. That might be useful if I'm making my own database and I want this to be searchable. But for today's purposes, all I care about is the name of the track, otherwise called track name as key. 

And the first song and only song because we limited it to one that we got back from iTunes here is the song that you might know by Weezer called Say It Ain't So. So now, I have a bit of a clue if my goal here is to implement a program called itunes.py that doesn't just dump the response from the server, which is admittedly very cryptic-- but to print out all of the songs that iTunes has for the band called Weezer, maybe I can iterate over this somehow. 

So let me backtrack. Here's the key call track name. It is inside of a dictionary that is the value of results here. So how can I go about getting this? Well, let me go ahead and try this. Let me go ahead and shrink my terminal window back down and let me propose now for one final flourish. We don't just lazily print out the contents of that response because that's not interesting or pretty for anyone. 

Let's do this. Let me go ahead and create a new variable just for the sake of discussion called O for object. And I'm going to go ahead and call o equals response.json just to store that JSON response specifically in a variable called o, but I could name it anything I want. And now, I'm going to do this. For each result in that object's key called results, go ahead and print out that result's track name. 

And notice I have used exactly the same capitalization. Track name has a capital N. Result is all lowercase. And let me rewind before we run the actual program. In line eight, we are making an HTTP request using Python to the server just like you and I as humans type URLs into a browser and hit Enter. This is the Python equivalent thereof. 

I am then on line 10 just grabbing from that variable that contains the server's response, the JSON object that I care about. The thing between those curly braces at the very top and the bottom. But because we've poked around and because I read the documentation earlier, I know that that object has a key called results. And that results key again is a list. 

Now, at the moment, that list contains only one song, Say It Ain't So, because I limited my response to one. But even so, my loop will work. It's just going to iterate once. And each time through that loop, it's going to print the current result's track name. 

If I want to make this even more interesting, let me change this limit now from 1 to 50 so I'll at least get back 50 track names instead. Let me go ahead now and increase the size of my terminal once more and go ahead now and run Python of itunes.py searching again for a band like Weezer. And here we go. And voila, there are 50 songs that iTunes has for Weezer. 

And if we scroll back up to the top here, we'll see that the very first one there is, indeed, Say It Ain't So. But now, we got Undone-- The Sweater Song, Buddy Holly. Apparently another rendition of Say It Ain't So perhaps from another album, another Buddy Holly undone, my name is Jonas, and so forth. Questions now on this program which integrates Python with a real world third party API? 

AUDIENCE: Yeah, hi. Can we use break instead of system.exit? 

DAVID MALAN: Good question, but no. Break again is used to break out of things like loops like we saw earlier. Sys.exit is used to break out of the whole program itself. Use break for loops for now and use sys.exit to terminate the whole program. Good question. Other questions now on this program are others? 

AUDIENCE: From where we bring the name of the key results? 

DAVID MALAN: From where do we get the name of the key? 

AUDIENCE: Results itself. Yeah, and can we change the results, the name? 

DAVID MALAN: You cannot. So we could in our program. So the keys that come back in that JSON response, to be clear, come from iTunes.Apple.com. Some team of engineers decided for us what all of those keys would be called, including track name, results, result count, and everything else. 

You and I can absolutely store those same values in variables just like I'm doing here with O, just like I'm doing here with result. You can rename those keys anything you want using Python variables. But the JSON response is coming from that third party server. Other questions. 

AUDIENCE: Yes, sir. So I have a question related to cowsay package. So like, yes. So sir, what sort of ASCII graphics is it capable of putting? 

DAVID MALAN: The cowsay package. I would refer you to the URL in the slides earlier if only because it's more thorough. They have not just cows, but Tyrannosaurus rex's and several other animals as well. I should emphasize that this is not a package I suspect you will use much in the real world. It's really just meant to be representative of the types of packages you can install. But allow me to refer to the documentation for what more is there. But ASCII art is all we had before there were emojis, let alone GIFs and JPEGs and pings. But it's what's is immortalized in cowsay. 
