All right, well let me propose that things get more interesting still if we're not just meowing three times only, but we're meowing some variable number of times. Let's ask the user how many times this cat should meow. So let me clear the screen here, and let me figure out, well, how do I get a number from the user? 

The catch here is that if I want the user to give me a number, I'm not doing math, per se, I'm meowing, and therefore, the user has to give me a positive value. The user has to give me a positive value. So how can I insist on this? Well, if I just do this, n equals int of input, what's n, question mark? Well, I want to check like-- I could say if n is less than 0-- like if it's negative, well I could do this. Well, then ask again. Int, input, what's n, question mark? 

OK, well what if the user still doesn't give me a positive number? What if being really difficult they're not paying attention and they typed in two negative numbers? Well, if n is less than 0, well, let's do it again. n equals-- this does not end well. You can't infinitely many times keep checking, is it negative, is it negative, or is it negative? The program would never be done written. 

So we can do this I think better maybe with a loop. So let me propose this. A very common paradigm in Python, when you want to get user input that matches a certain expectation you have, that it's all positive, that it's all negative, or just something like that, you just immediately say while true. You deliberately, and a little dangerously but a very conventionally, induce an infinite loop. 

Now what is an infinite loop? It's just one that goes forever. And we've seen how that can happen accidentally mathematically. It's absolutely going to happen when you say while true. Why? Well, the answer to the true question is always true. So this is a way of deliberately inducing a loop that by default is going to go forever. 

So we're going to need a way of breaking out of this loop when we have the number we want. The convention, though inside of this otherwise an infinite loop is to ask the question you care about, like give me an int by prompting the user for input. Like what's n, question mark? And then just ask your question. So if n is less than 0, then I think we want Python to just continue to prompt the user again. That is, we want the code to stay in the loop, recall the input function, and hope that the user gives us a better answer. If this time around it's less than 0, so let's just literally use Python's keyword continue, which says just that-- continue to stay within this loop. 

Else, if it's not less than 0, let's go ahead and just break out of the loop altogether using another keyword in Python, break. Break will break you out of the most recently begun loop in this case if it's not the case that n is less than 0. So this will work, and it will allow us to get a value that 0 or greater from the user, but I think we can tighten it up further so as to not bother having an if, and, and else. 

Why don't we instead just say, if n is greater than 0, go ahead and break? In fact, it's not that interesting a program if we even allow the user to type in 0. So let's wait until they give us an integer that is greater than 0 and then break out of this loop. And what can I now do down here? For i in range of whatever that value n is, print meow. And honestly, I don't need i here, so let me come back to that principle before. And let me just change it to an underscore just to be Pythonic, if you will. 

So what's going on? Lines 1 through 4 deliberately implement an infinite loop that otherwise by default is going to go forever. But I'm asking a question, inside of that loop, after getting an int from the user on line 2, I'm then checking, is it greater than 0? Or is it 0? Is it negative? None of which makes sense for meowing cat. Like I want the cat to meow at least one time. 

So if it is greater than 0, break. And this break statement, even though it's indented, indented twice, has the effect of breaking out of the most recently begun while loop. So once the user gives you a positive value, then we get to line 6, at which point we meow that many times because of line 6 and 7. 

So if I run this now Python of cat.py, Enter, well, what's n? Let's start with 3 where we began, meow, meow, meow. Well this time, let me go ahead and increase the size of my terminal window just temporarily. Let me run Python of cat.py, let me do it 10 times, meow 10 times now appears on the screen. 

And the takeaways here are not just that we can meow 10 times or do something again and again, but this is a very common paradigm in Python when you want to do something again and again and again, but only until the user actually gives you a value that you care about here. And let me propose actually now that we practice a little more what we've been preaching, especially when it comes to, say-- especially when it comes to say writing your own functions. 

Now that I'm doing all this meowing, it might be nice to actually have a meow function that the inventors of Python didn't envision, so let me do this. Let me actually get rid of all this code and let me go ahead and do this. Let me go ahead and say define a main function, as I've done before, and let me just blindly call meow 3. Meow doesn't exist yet, but when it does, that'll be great. 

So let me go ahead now and define meow. So am I meow function should take as input a parameter called n or anything I want, and this part's pretty easy now. How do you meow n times? Well, for underscore n, the range of n, go ahead and just print meow. So same code as before, nothing new here, I'm just putting that logic inside of a meow function that's going to have this side effect of printing meow. 

And now, as before, let me go down here and let me make sure I call main. And if I now run this code, Python of cat.py, meow, meow, meow. It's always going to do three because I've hardcoded to 3. Well, let's make one improvement here. Let me go ahead now and maybe do this. Let me ask the user for a number. So let's say something like this, number equals get number. 

All right. Unfortunately, there is no function in Python called get number that gets a positive number from the user, but I can invent that. So define get number, open paren, close paren. And then inside of this function, let me do this. While true, go ahead and get a number from the user, converting it to an int asking them, what's n, question mark? And then if n is what I want, it's a greater than 0 value, a positive number, I don't want to break this time necessarily, although I could. I instead want to return the value so I can actually do this instead. 

And this, too, is a feature of Python. This ability not to just break out of a block of code, but also to return a value in code. To actually return a value gives you the ability, ultimately, to return explicitly a value so that your function has not just a side effect, necessarily, but it actually hands back, just like input does, just like int does, just like float does, an actual value to the user. 

Now to be clear, I don't have to return n here. I can still break out of the loop as I've done in the past with code like this, but then after the loop, I still have to return. And so what's happening here is that if you use break to get out of the loop, but you need to hand back a value from a function, you still have to use the return keyword now explicitly either in the loop as I did or now outside of the loop but still inside of the function. 

The last thing I'm going to do here now is change that 3, which we hardcoded earlier, to actually be the value of the variable we've gotten from the user so that now down here, if I run Python of cat.py, Enter, what's n? I can type in 3, I get my three meows, or if I only want one, I now get one meow instead.