In fact, let me transition here to show just another way of solving this same problem, because up until now when we've used loops, we really have relied on numbers, and that's fine if you prefer to stay in that space. Suppose I did want to iterate using numbers like i and 0, 1, 2, and so forth. Let me propose that we could change this code as follows. 

If you would prefer to think about, or if the program you're trying to implement requires that you use numbers like this, you might do this. For i in-- well, I don't want to just say students, because then i is not going to be a number. i is going to be literally Hermione, then Harry, then Ron. I need to iterate from 0 to 1 to 2. If I a list with three elements has these locations, 0, 1, 2, I need to create a loop somehow that starts at 0 and ends at 2. 

Previously when I wanted to do that, I needed range, but this 2 is not going to work. I can't just say in the range of students, because students is not a number, it's not an integer, so you can't pass it to range. Range expects an integer. But there is a solution here. It turns out that there is a function in Python called length or len, L-E-N, that will tell you the length of a list and other things down the line, too. And now I think I can assemble these building blocks and a way that can allow me to use numbers in this way. 

So range doesn't take a list of strings, it takes a number, and ideally, that number is going to be 3, so I get a range of values, 0, 1, and 2. So I think I can nest my functions like this. If I first get the length of the students list, that's going to be 3, then I pass that return value as the argument to range, that's going to give me back a range of values, 0, then 1, then 2. 

And what that's going to allow me to do then in code if I want is not just this. I could do print now students bracket i, and this is now where the syntax we're seeing is getting very expressive-- new and perhaps unfamiliar. But if I can do open bracket, 0, close bracket, or open bracket, 1, close bracket, or open bracket, 2, close bracket, turns out, I can actually put a variable in there and I can express any number inside of those brackets so as to print these all out dynamically in a loop. 

Let me do this, Python of hogwarts.py, Enter, there's Hermione, Harry, and Ron. And now if I'm just curious, I just want to poke around or maybe I want to do a ranking, like who are the top three students in the school or in Gryffindor? Well, I can print multiple things at a time, we've seen. Let me print out not just the students at location i, but rather, let's print i first and then the student at location i. 

So two things to print, and we know that print can take two arguments, we've seen that before, they'll be separated by a space. Let me go ahead and rerun this. Now I see that, OK, Hermione is the top student, but she's in zeroth place. That's a little weird. Like we don't need to show the human using my program that we started counting at 0. I can clean this up. I can just add 1 to the i up here, and now we see a top three list of students. Hermione is number 1, Harry's number 2, and of course, Ron is number 3. So we can get access to all of those same values as well. 

Are there any questions now on these lists? Any questions now on these lists? This length, these ranges, or otherwise? 

AUDIENCE: My question is, for i in range, can you explain this once more? 

DAVID MALAN: Sure. So let me rewind in time. We started off doing this. For i in 0, 1, 2, and then we print it out meow three times in that way. The way that for loop works is that it creates for you a variable that I've called i, but I could call it anything I want. It then assigns i initially to the first thing in the list. It then automatically assigns i to the next thing in the list. And then it assigns i to the third thing in the list. And each time it does all of the indented code underneath. 

We realize, though, that this is not going to scale well if I want to do something like a million times. So we introduced range instead. That has the effect of doing the same thing. It returns to me a range of values-- a list of three things, really, so the behavior is exactly the same. If we now fast forward to this Hogwarts example now, though, what I'm doing is just combining these smaller ideas. 

I'm still creating a for loop. I'm still creating a variable called i. I want to do it over a range of values, but how many values? Well, if I use the length function and pass to the length function the list of values, length's purpose in life is to tell me how long is this list, and it's 3. So that's almost as though before, I had just done something like this, but I don't want to hardcode 3, I want to dynamically figure out how many students are at Hogwarts. So I'm just composing, composing, composing, or nesting all of these various ideas.