All right, if I may, let me transition now to-- in Hogwarts still to introduce one final type of data before we combine everything with a few final programs. It turns out in Python, there's not just strings, not just ints, not just floating point values, not just bools, not just lists there are also what are called dictionaries or dics, are a data structure that allows you to associate one value with another. 

Literally a dictionary like in the human world. If you were to open a dictionary, be it in English or any other human language, what's inside of a dictionary? Well, it's a bunch of words and definitions. A computer scientist, though, and a programmer would describe those more generically as keys and values, something associated with something else. That's all a dictionary is. It allows you to associate something with something else. 

And notice, this is already more powerful, more interesting than a list. A list is just a set of multiple values. But a dictionary is two-dimensional, if you will. Just like a human dictionary, a book, it associates something with something else like words with their definitions. Now what does this actually mean in practice? 

Well suppose that we wanted to keep track of who is in what house at Hogwarts. Well, I could do it using lists alone. Let me go back to VS Code here and let me just temporarily-- but in a way that I'm not going to like ultimately-- let me create another variable called houses, set it equal to Gryffindor, corresponding to Hermione's house, Gryffindor, corresponding to Harry's house, and Gryffindor, corresponding to Ron's house. And let's add Draco in there. So we now have four instead of three students just so we have a little variety, and he was in Slytherin. 

So now we have two lists. And we could just agree amongst ourselves that whoever is first in the students variable lives in the first value in houses. Whoever is second in students lives in the second house. Who's ever third in students lives in the third house. We could do that. But honestly, that is going to break down quickly when we have a lot of students, when we have a lot of houses, and what if we want to keep track of more things than that? What if we want to keep track of every student's house and the patronus, this image that they conjure up magically? 

Well, then we need a third list like-- this is just going to get messy quickly if we're just on the honor system using multiple lists where everything lines up logically. It doesn't end up well when your code gets more complicated. But I do want to implement this idea. I want to associate something with something. A student with a house, a student with a house, a student with a house and so forth, so how can I go about doing this? 

Well, let me go back to my code here and let me propose that we do this using a Python dictionary. And this is the last of the new syntax, really, that we'll see . Here's the new syntax. Instead of using square brackets, we're going to use curly braces for dictionaries as well. We've seen curly braces in the context of f strings completely unrelated. Sometimes you run out of keys on the keyboard and the authors of a language need to start reusing symbols in different ways, that's what's about to happen. We're using curly braces in a different way. 

Now so let me create a variable called students. And let me go ahead and set it equal to open curly brace and closed curly brace. This is an empty dictionary at the moment. And here's how a dictionary works. It allows you to associate something with something else, and you do that like this. Hermione, quote-unquote, colon, and then the value thereof. 

What do you want to associate with Hermione? Well, Gryffindor. What do I want to associate Harry with? Well, I want to associate him with Gryffindor. What do I want to associate Ron with? Well, I want to associate him with Gryffindor. Well, this is actually not going to-- this is going to get very ugly quickly. Once we add in Draco and Slytherin, my code is going to get too long, it's going to start wrapping. 

So this is purely aesthetic. It is perfectly acceptable in Python and other languages to format your code a little more readily and just add new lines if it makes it more readable. And one way of doing this might be as follows. I still have my curly brace up here, I still have my curly brace down here, but notice, it's a little more readable now in that I have my keys on the left, my somethings, and my values on the right, my other somethings. It's just a little easier to skim top to bottom. You could format it differently as well. 

But I'm going to go ahead and add in now Draco who lives, of course, in Slytherin. So now I have each of these keys on the left and values on the right, which is really, again, just a code implementation of this idea, a little chart that you might write up with paper pencil when associating something with something else. 

So how do I now use this code in an interesting way? The syntax is almost the same. If I want to print out the very first student, Hermione's house, I could do this. Print out the name of the variable, but I need to go inside of the variable. I need to index into it. And what's neat about dictionaries is that whereas lists have locations that are numeric-- 0, 1, 2; Hermione, Harry, Ron respectively, dictionaries allow you to use actual words as your indices, so to speak, your indexes to get inside of them. 

So if you want to print out Hermione's house, the key you care about is, quote-unquote, Hermione, and what this syntax here will do-- notice, it's not a number 0 or 1 or 2. It's literally Hermione's name. This is like going to the chart earlier and saying, all right, give me Hermione is my key, Gryffindor is the value. 

That's what we're doing here syntactically. We're looking up Hermione and getting the value thereof. So if I go back to my code, that should print out Gryffindor. And if I do this a few times, students, bracket, quote-unquote, Harry should give me Harry's house. Print students, open bracket, Ron, that should give me Ron's house. And then lastly, if I do this with students, bracket, Draco, that should give me Draco's house. 

Now it's a little manual still, and I bet we can improve this, but let me run Python on hogwarts.py and we should see Gryffindor, Gryffindor, Gryffindor, Slytherin, which is exactly what we'd expect. Now all we've done, again, is we've just now moved from having just a simple list of names to, again, two dimensions, associating like we would on paper-pencil something with something else, keys with values respectively. 

Allow me, if you will, even though I realize this is getting a little fancy, allow me to escalate things slightly here and transition from looking at just, for instance, that pattern there, just a hard coding those values there to actually printing these out more dynamically. Let me go ahead and use our loop, and this question came up earlier as well, let me go ahead and say for each student in students, go ahead and print out, for instance, the students variable at-- well, let's just say student first. Let's keep it simple. 

So this is not going to be that interesting yet, but when I run Python of hogwarts.py and hit Enter, notice, what should I see? Let me take a question here to see what am I going to see when I hit Enter now when I'm doing for student in students? 

AUDIENCE: Yeah, I think we will only see keys. 

DAVID MALAN: Perfect. So good intuition. It could have gone both ways. Could have been values, the houses. But when you use a for loop in Python to iterate over a dictionary, by design, it iterates over all of the keys. So we should see, I think, Hermione, Harry, Ron, and Draco. Let me hit Enter now, Enter, and indeed, you're exactly right, we see just the keys. 

But that's not really that useful if what I really care about is who lives where, can I print out both? Well, I think I can. Let me go ahead and do this. Let me print out not just the student's name, the key, but let me use the key, their name, to index into the dictionary. If I know the word in the dictionary, let me look up its definition. If I know the student's name, let me look up their house, and the syntax for this, just like a list, is students, bracket. And just like in the past we used i when i was a number, we can also with a dictionary use a string. 

So if the student's name is the key, then this syntax, students, open bracket, student, close bracket will go to Hermione's location and get back her house. Will go to Harry's location and get back his house and so forth. So if I do Python of hogwarts.py, Enter, now I see Hermione, Gryffindor; Harry, Gryffindor; Ron, Gryffindor; and Draco Slytherin. 

Now it looks like I've given them all new last names, but I can clean that up. This is just a print thing. Let's go ahead and change our separator from the default space to maybe a space, comma. And just using print features now, let me run the same program again, Enter, now I've just got some nice pretty commas in there to make clear that Hermione's last name is not, in fact, Gryffindor, but that's just a print detail. Any questions, then, on these dictionaries and what I've just done? Questions on these dictionaries and this looping over then here? 

AUDIENCE: I just can't get my head around the for student in students. If I'm-- just correct me if I'm right. Does that mean it imports the list of students and uses the indexes-- or in other words, Hermione, Harry, and Ron as the indexes in the actual-- the list of students? 

DAVID MALAN: Correct. So this is just a feature of Python. When you use a for loop with a dictionary, what happens is this. If this is the dictionary here with the keys on top and the values on bottom, you get to choose what the variable is called. I called my variable student just because it makes sense, because I want one student at a time. 

And what for loop does, just like it did with numbers before, the 0, the 1, and the 2, it allows me to, for instance, set student equal initially to Hermelin's name. And then the next iteration of the loop, the next cycle, sets student equal to Harry's name, then Ron, then Draco. It just happens automatically. Like that is what the Python interpreter does for you when it sees a for loop like that. 

So it's very similar in spirit to iterating with a for loop over a list, but rather than iterate over the numeric location, 0, 1, 2, it iterates over the bold-faced keys in this representation here graphically. And allow me to give us one other example on Hogwarts before we look at one other familiar domain. At the risk of things escalating a little bit, let me propose that we continue the story with one final Hogwarts example like this. 

What if we have more information about each of our students? And this is inevitable. If you're implementing a program that's a database with people or customers, or employees or anything else, you can imagine having a lot of data about anything you're representing in your program here. For the sake of discussion, suppose that every student at Hogwarts, of course, has a name, they have already a house, but they also have a patronus. 

For those unfamiliar, this is the animal or entity that comes out of the end of their wand when they make a certain magical spell. The point here being is that we want to associate not just one thing with the student, but multiple things as well-- their name, their house, and their patronus in this case.