So with that said, let's go ahead and do a couple of demonstrations of just what we can do with this language and why it's not only so powerful, but also so popular right now. I'm going to go ahead, for instance, and open up a file called-- let's call it blur.py. And blur.py might be reminiscent of what we did a few weeks back in Pset4, where in C, you implemented a set of filters. And blurring an image was one of them. 

And let me go ahead and open up the image here, for instance. I have in the source 6 directory today a whole bunch of examples, such as-- the image I want is going to be in Filter. This was the one we looked at some weeks ago. So we had this nice picture of [INAUDIBLE] bridge down by the river. And it's super pristine, nice and clear, because it's a very high-quality photo. But let's try to blur this in, this time, using Python. 

So I'm going to go over to blur.py. And I'm going to go ahead and do the equivalent in Python of including some library or some header files. But you don't say include in Python. You, instead, say import. And I'm going to say from PIL, which is like the pillow library-- I'm going to go ahead and import something called an image and an image filter. I only know these exist by having read the documentation for them and knowing that I can include or import those special features. 

And let's go ahead and do this. I'm going to go ahead and open up the image as it stands now. And I'll call that before. So I'm going to go ahead and open an image called bridge.bmp. And then, I'm going to go ahead and after that, say, you know what? Go ahead and run the before image through a filter called ImageFilter, specifically ImageFilter.BLUR. 

And then, after that, I'm going to go ahead and say after.save("out.bmp"). And I'm going to save my file. So once this has been read here-- there we go-- once this has been saved here, now I'm going to go ahead and do the following. Let me go into my file directory here. Let me open my terminal window here. Let me go ahead and grab a copy of this from my src6 directory here, which is in my filter subdirectory today-- bridge.bmp. 

And let me go ahead now and run python blur.py. So I'm going to go ahead and hit Enter now. Notice that another file was just created in my directory here. Let's go ahead and look at the nice pretty bridge, which is where we started. Let me shrink my terminal window here. Let me open now out.bmp. And voila-- blurred-- before, after, before, after. But what's more important-- three lines of code-- so that's how you would implement the same thing as Pset4's blur feature in Python.