Now in the computer world, you don't have 10 digits, 0 through 9. You have just two digits, 0 and 1. So we can just make a little tweak to our mental model here, so to speak, and just now use 2, powers of 2, instead of powers of 10. So that means the right hand column is going to be 1, the middle column is going to be 2, the left column is going to be 4, and if we kept going, it'd be 8, 16, 32 instead of 1,000, 10,000, 100,000. But the idea is exactly the same. So I propose that computers only speak zeros and ones, of course. But how do they represent larger numbers than 0 and 1? Well, this is representing 0. This is representing 1. What pattern of symbols on the screen would represent the number we humans know as 2? Yeah. So 010. So you just spoke binary. So even if you just generally knew that binary is spoken by computers, it just means that a computer, to represent the number we know as 2, somehow stores a pattern of symbols of 010. How do they represent 3? 011, for the same reason. It's 2 times 1, plus 1 times 1, gives us, of course, three. And now, just as before when we meant 9 to 10, now we actually go from 3 to 4 by carrying the 1 now. So in binary, bi meaning two, hence the 0 and 1, 100 is not 100, per se, it is literally the number we know as 4. And we can keep going on up. This of course, now is 5. This would be 6. This would be 7. And what happens if we want to represent eight? Yeah. So we kind of have to solve this somehow. We need another digit. And that's fine, right? In math class, you would just add another place, another column, in order to get back the value that you want. So we need more zeros or ones, otherwise, now known as bit. If you've ever heard of the phrase bit, it just means binary digit, and a 0 or a 1 is just something we know as a bit. And why is this germane to computers? Well, as fancy as our Macs and PCs and phones are today, consider, after all, that at the end of the day, what do you have to do, typically, with your laptop, your desktop, your phone these days? What do you do at the very end of the day? Yeah, so you charge it, right? You plug it into some physical resource. That is the only physical resource into these computers that we use today. And that's kind of nice, because, of course, the core can either be plugged in or not plugged in. Or maybe we could call that a 1 or a 0, true or false, on or off, which is to say if electricity is our only input and there's either yes electricity or no electricity, well, that actually maps quite nicely to the idea of binary because we need just two symbols, 0 and 1, off and on, to represent that idea. Of course with a single bit, you can't do all that much. You can only count from 0 to 1, and that's it. So computers tend to use larger numbers of bits to represent information. And they do this ultimately physically. So it turns out that with both plug-in the wall, or even a light bulb or a switch thereof, you can represent a 0 or 1. But if you want to represent more zeros and ones, well, we just need, maybe, 8 bits at a time. And if you've ever heard of the expression byte, a byte is just a term describing eight bits, eight zeros and ones, a more useful measure instead.