But that yellow picture, of course, itself is an image. And it's composed of lots of little dots. And odds are coming into this class, you're generally familiar with using images, certainly, and seeing the little dots that compose an image. Especially if they're of low quality, you can really see those dots. And so in a face like the emoji, we have lots of yellow dots. How does the computer represent each of those dots? Well, according to a system called RGB. Red, green, blue. So again, decades ago, people in a room decided, you know what? To represent colors, we still have to use just zeros and ones, little switches, mechanically. But let's just all agree what numbers represent what colors. So we just need another system for that. Now it turns out that RGB essentially composes any color of the rainbow by mixing together some red, some green, some blue. And by combining those colors one on top of the other, you can get any color of the rainbow you want. So this is to say to store any dot on the screen, one pixel, so to speak, in an image that you might take as a photo or send to a friend, you are actually storing three values. One, two, three. Three numbers, really, that, of course, at the end of the day, are zeros and ones. Those three numbers just tell the computer how much red, how much green, and how much blue to use to represent some dot on a screen. So suppose that coincidentally, a computer were storing the pattern 72, 73, 33, albeit with zeros and ones or light bulbs, back-to-back-to-back like this. Well, in the context of Photoshop or a browser or Apple photos or the like, in the context of a graphical program, your computer is going to interpret this same pattern of digits, and in turn, bits, not as high, exclamation point, but as some amount of red, some amount of green, some amount of blue. And it turns out if you combine this much red, 72, this much green, 73, followed by this much blue, 33, what you get when you combine all three of those is a shade of yellow. So for every single dot in that emoji, that face with tears of joy, every dot in this image-- and we can see it if we really zoom in-- is stored using three values. Some amount of red, some amount of green, some amount of blue that we can bind give you yellow or black or gray or anything else, depending on how you encode those values. 