So beyond those four ideas, functions, conditions, Boolean expressions, and loops, we're about to see a bunch of others, as well. Variables, reminiscent of what you might recall from algebra, but more powerful now in this context of programming. Something called threads and events. And we're going to do this by way of an actual programming language. But it's not yet going to be this one. Indeed, just a week from now will you actually understand what this means. Odds are 2/3 of you have no idea what this actually is, and that's OK. But it's a program written in a language called C-- more on that next time-- that quite simply says hello to the world. But we're going to do it today in the context of a graphical language from my MIT's Media Lab called Scratch. This is a language via which you can program a computer by dragging and dropping blocks or things that look like puzzle pieces that interlock together so that you can tell the computer exactly what to do, step-by-step. And we'll see in this language today, and for the first problem set or programming assignment, that you can express all of these ideas from pseudocode in an actual language like Scratch. So what lies ahead? Well at scratch.MIT.edu, which I'm about to pull up myself, is going to be where you spend time in the first problem set. And it's going to look quite like this when you open it up. On the left hand side of this website, this web-based programming environment from MIT, you're going to see on the left hand side a whole bunch of puzzle pieces, so to speak. And they're categorized according to some different colors there on the left. In the middle, there's just going to be a big white canvas, initially, onto which you can drag and drop those puzzle pieces and lock them together to make the program do something. What can you make it do? Well, on the top right here is the so-called stage in Scratch. By default, there's only one character, or sprite, on that stage. Scratch himself, and he can move up, down, left, right and do any number of other things if you tell him what to do by dragging and dropping those puzzle pieces. If you don't like that cat or you want many others, you can also add multiple sprites, or characters, by creating them in that area.