But let's now make things a little more interesting. Rather than just talk and text with this cat, let's go ahead and have it do some other things instead. Let me go ahead under Sound, for instance, and it looks like there's a block in pink here called Play Sound Meow until done. And now let me stop the old program and start the new. [CAT MEOWING] OK. A little piercing, but adorable. And if you want to hear it again-- [CAT MEOWING] --I can click the green flag-- [CAT MEOWING] --and I can click the green flag. Of course, this is a pretty boring cat if it goes lifeless after it said just one meow. How would we get it to perpetuate that sound and just meow every few seconds? What constructor idea might we want to use here? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] DAVID MALAN: Yeah, so some kind of loop. So it turns out in Scratch, there's a few ways to do this. But if I go down to Control, you'll see a couple of blocks here. Repeat some number of times, by default, 10, or forever. I'm going to go ahead and maybe do this forever. [LAUGHTER] And I'm going to drag and drop this now into here. Notice I can move things around wherever I want. And now I can reattach this up here. And now play. [CAT MEOWING REPEATEDLY] It's a very agitated cat at the moment. I can calm him down, perhaps, by dragging and dropping this. And notice even if there's no room, it will grow to fill. [CAT MEOWING SLOWED DOWN] One second. Now it's a happier cat, if you will. But now that we have the ability to have the cat do something forever, it doesn't have to just do the same thing again and again. It can interact with me or its environment. So instead of playing the sound here-- someone following along at home? So instead of playing the sound here, let me go ahead and try this. Let me go to Sensing and go ahead to-- what might I want to do here? Let's go ahead and under Motion, rather, under here, point toward mouse pointer. So point towards mouse pointer and then go ahead and move some number of steps. And I'm going to have it move one step or dot or pixel at a time. And here now we'll get this effect. It looks as though now he'll kind of follow me, right? And as I move my cursor, he is forever pointing toward the cursor then moving one step. Of course, he's a little slow. And let me go ahead and stop. If I make him take 10 steps at a time, or 10 dots or pixels on the screen, now it seems a little harder to avoid. And you can sort of-- he'll literally do as you move your cursor here.