Well, now let's do something a little fancier still. Let me go ahead here and do this. Let me go ahead and make this one from scratch, no pun intended. And I'm going to go ahead and start with an event. When the green flag is clicked, let me go ahead and grab some motion here. Let me go ahead and grab Set Rotation Style to left right just because this will make sure that he ultimately does as we intend. I'm going to go to Control. I'm going to do the following forever. Suppose I want the cat to just bounce back and forth on the screen. Well, the first thing I need to do is animate him and actually make him start moving. And the best way to do that, frankly, would just be to go to Motion and move some number of steps, maybe 10 steps to go quickly or one step to go slowly. But I can ask a question every time the cat moves. I can go and ask something like this. If something is true, go ahead and maybe do something else. So maybe bounce off the wall. So how do I say if you're touching the edge, go ahead and bounce backwards? Well, it turns out if you poke around, you'll see something like this. If touching Not Mouse Pointer, but notice this edge, I can use the little dropdown, change what the puzzle piece says. I can now move this Boolean expression into place. The condition will grow to fill. And what do I want to now do? Well, if he touches the edge, I'm going to go ahead and say turn not 15 degrees, which is the default, but I'll do it 180 instead. And now we have our own little animation where he's going back and forth and back and forth. Of course, this seems a little unrealistic that he's just bouncing happily so, so there is a non-academic feature we can now introduce. For instance, you can turn on your computer's microphone and say ouch. That is what Ouch looks like. If I go ahead and save this, call this Ouch, go back now to my code. Let's go ahead and into sound here and maybe play not the sound Meow, but maybe the sound Ouch, such that now this cat-- [OUCH SOUND PLAYING REPEATEDLY] OK. So maybe a little more dynamic. But it turns out he's really not walking or running. He's really just-- [OUCH SOUND] --sliding across the screen, right? His legs are never actually moving. Now, why is that? Well, it turns out that the costume that this sprite is wearing, that the cat is, it's just a picture. It's an image composed of lots of little dots. And you know what? To animate a character and bring some life to it, so to speak, all we really need is at least one more picture. After all, that's all an animated GIF or a video is, multiple pictures. So here's one, here's two. Here's one, here's two. And even though he's definitely making some leaps with each stride, if you do this fast enough, it would seem that the cat is actually making some motion and walking instead of just sliding.