So where does that actually leave us? Well, let me go ahead and open up a couple of final examples here, one of them that I actually made back in my day. And so this, when I actually started using Scratch for the first time, it gave me this program here called Oscar Time. And Oscar Time, reminiscent of an old song from Oscar the Grouch singing, does this. [SINGING] There's this stage. Notice the lamp post here and the trashcan. And apparently, something falling from the sky that looks like a piece of trash, but it's just a sprite. It's what could have been a cat, but I changed the costume on the cat to be a piece of trash. But notice if I move my cursor and click and drag, notice that this piece of trash follows the cursor just like Scratch followed my cursor before on the screen. And notice if I move it over to the trash can, the trash can opens up, which is a Sensing question. If touching trash can, then open up. And open up probably just means change the costume to show a different image instead of the original, thereby a very simple idea of animation. And now notice when I let go, if touching trash can and let go, Oscar should come out of the trash can, count up to one, which is my score, and then the game continues. Now there's more trash falling. Let me go ahead and do this. And you'll see that these basic ideas of conditions and loops and variables and Boolean expressions together can compose a pretty interactive game. This game took me eight or more hours to make, and it's because I did not sit down and just make the whole thing at once. I took baby steps, so to speak. I first, frankly, did the easy part and I just found an image of Sesame Street, put it on the stage, and boom. At least version one, all it did was say Sesame Street. And it's not interactive at all. Then I added a sprite, which instead of being a cat, I changed the costume to be the trash icon. And I just figured out the code, the puzzle pieces, to make that puzzle piece fall from the sky and then stop when it's on the edge, just like the cat was able to make a decision to bounce when it touched the edge. And now things get a little crazy. The song gets more sophisticated. I added more and more sprites that just fall in lockstep with the music. So this was quite a few hours of effort, but it boils down to really the same principle, just as this other program here does, too.