Well, to ask the questions using these symbols, or any others, we're going to need another keyword in Python. And that keyword, quite simply, as in English, is if. You can ask questions in Python code along the lines of, if the answer to this question is true, then go ahead and execute this code for me. So let's go ahead and write some of these examples here. I'm going to go over to VS Code. 

And let's go ahead and create a program first, called compare.py, the goal of which is simply to write code that compares values and makes decisions based on those values. Let's go ahead and type code of compare.py, in order to create a brand new file called compare, in which we'll start to express some of this logic. Well, what do we want to compare? Suppose we want to compare, for the sake of discussion, just a couple of integers. But we'd like those integers to come from the user, so that we can make decisions based on numbers we don't know the values of in advance. 

Well, let's go ahead and do this. As we've done in the past, let's declare it a variable, like x. Let's assign it equal to the return value of the int function, and pass to the int function the return value of the input function, asking the user a question like, what's x, question mark, as we've done in the past. Let's do this one more time with y, asking the user for the value of y. And, again, converting that, ultimately, to an int, as well. 

So with this amount of the story, we have two variables, x and y, each of which has values. And ideally, we should be able to now compare these values. So suppose I want to make a decision based on the values of these variables. I'm going to use the keyword if. And I'm going to use some of those mathematical symbols to actually ask the question itself. So how about this, if x is less than y, then let's go ahead and just print as much out. Quote, unquote x is less than y. 

So this isn't a very interesting program yet. I'm literally just stating the obvious, based on the math. But it's allowing me to now introduce some new syntax. And exactly what is the syntax? Well, it's this-- not just the keyword if, which I've added here at the start of line four, but then I asked my question here, x less than y. x is one variable on the left, y is one variable on the right. And, of course, the less than sign is expressing the mathematical question I have. What I've highlighted here is technically called a Boolean expression. 

A Boolean expression, named after a mathematician named Bool, is simply a question that has a yes or no answer, or technically, a true or false answer. And that's nice because if there's only two possible answers, it's very easy for me, and in turn the computer, to make a decision-- do this, or don't do this thing. Now notice, if you come from other languages, you might notice that I have not typed any parentheses. They are not, in fact, necessary, at least in this case, in Python, but I have typed a colon at the end of the line. 

And even more importantly, at the next line I have begun my line with some indentation, hitting the space bar four times, or just hitting Tab once, which will automatically be converted to the same. That indentation is what tells Python that line five should only be executed if the answer to line four's question is, in fact, true. So if x is less than y, that phrase will be printed thereafter. Well, let's add a few more lines of code. How about another question? 

If x is greater than y, then let's go ahead and print that. x is greater than y. And let's do one final question, if x equals y, then-- wait a minute. What have I done wrong here? A good eye here. I don't want to assign y to x. If x equals equals y is how I express equality, let's go ahead and print out x is equal to y. 

So I now have three conditions, if you will, one question asking x less than y, one asking x greater than y, one asking x equals equals y. Let's run the code. Well, down here in my terminal window I'm going to run Python of compare.py and hit Enter. What's x? Let's go with one. What's y? Let's go with two. This should, of course, execute that first line of code and tell me, indeed, that x is less than y. Exactly as I would expect there. 

Well, what just happened, though, in code? Well, let's take a look, perhaps, at this same code visually, particularly if you're a more visual learner, this, I dare say, is what just happened. So what we're looking at here is a flow chart. It's a diagram of this program's logic. And more technically, it shows the program's control flow. That is, the ability of you, in code, to control the flow of a program, generally from top to bottom. In fact, let me go ahead and zoom in on the top of this flow chart. 

And you'll see an oval at the very top that says, quite literally, start. That is, irrespective of what shape or layout the diagram is, where your own thinking and logic should start when trying to wrap your mind around this program. Notice that there's an arrow from start to this diamond shape. And inside of that diamond is a question, a Boolean expression, x less than y. And this shape just means, based on the answer to that question, go left or go right. Specifically, go left if the answer is true, or go right if the answer is false. 

Well, the inputs I typed were one and two, respectively, for x and y. So, of course, one is less than two. So that's why my program printed out, quote unquote, x is less than y. But recall the code. The code then proceeded to ask two more questions. Is x greater than y? Is x equal equal to y? Well, the flow chart depicts those questions, too. 

Notice that no matter whether the question had an answer of true or false, the arrows both converge back down to this second diamond shape here. And that second diamond shape asks the second question, x greater than y. That, too, has a true or false answer. So we go one way or the other. But if x is one and y is two, then no, the answer is false. One is not greater than y. So logically, in the flow chart, you follow the false arrow this time. And notice, along that false arrow you don't print anything this time. 

That's why we only saw one printout on the screen. Now, there was still a third question. And this flow chart captures that, as well. The third diamond asks x equals equals y. Now that, too, has a false answer in this case, because one, of course, does not equal equal y. And so we again follow the third false branch here. And that leads us, of course, to stop. And stop just indicates that's it for the program. So I think that's correct. And that particular flow chart does happen to represent the actual code that I wrote. 

So it's correct. It does what it's supposed to do. It answered the question correctly by printing on the screen x less than y. But what is, perhaps, poorly designed about it? Let's make this first distinction. It's not enough, necessarily, for the code that you write to be correct and do what you intend. Longer term, especially as our programs get longer and more sophisticated, more complicated, we're going to want them to be well-designed, too. Thoughts on in what way this program is arguably not well designed, even though it's correct? 

Let's see here. Khalid, if I'm saying that right, your thoughts? 

KHALID: Too many ifs, I think, is getting repetitive. We can make our code more concise, maybe. 

DAVID MALAN: Yeah, it seems a little repetitive. I'm asking if this, if this, if this. And yet, logically, I should know the answer to some of those later questions once I figure one out. And, in short, if you look at this diagram here, notice that no matter whether I go left or I go right, I'm always asking three questions. No matter what, all of those arrows lead to the first, the second, and the third diamond. So I'm asking three questions, no matter whether any of those answers are true or false. Well how might I go about improving this? 