Well, let me propose that we introduce another keyword to our Python vocabulary, namely elif. And this, too, is kind of a succinct one. It's a conjunction of else if, in English, which allows us to ask a question that takes into account whether or not a previous question had a true or false answer. Well, what do I mean by that? Well, let me go back to my code here. And let me propose that we now improve upon this, here, by asking ourselves, ultimately, how can we ask fewer questions? 

And let me go ahead here and propose that instead of asking if, if, if, let's make these conditions potentially mutually exclusive. That is to say, don't keep answering questions once we get back a true answer. So I'm going to change my code up here as follows. Instead of asking if, if, if, I'm going to say, if x less than y, elif x greater than y, elif x equals equals y. 

So I'm going to implicitly, just like an English, take into account that I'm only going to keep asking myself these questions if I haven't yet gotten a true response. Think about the logic here, the English. If x is less than y, on line four, print out x is less than y. Well, if that's the case, you're done, logically. Because if the English is saying if x less than y, else if x greater than y, those are going to be mutually exclusive if the answer to the first question is true. 

You don't have to keep asking questions to which you already logically know the answer. So let me go ahead now and run this program. And I think the behavior is going to be the same. Python of compare.py, what's x? Let's do one. What's y? Let's do two. x is less than y. Now, honestly, I didn't really notice a difference when I ran the program. And honestly, my Mac, my PC, my phone nowadays, are so darn fast that these kinds of improvements aren't going to necessarily feel any faster until we're writing bigger, faster programs. 

But it's laying the foundation for writing better code longer term. Now what is the improvement I've just made? Well, if previously my diagram looked like this, which was problematic insofar as I was asking three questions no matter what, even if I already figured out what I want to print on the screen. This new version of the program that says if, elif, elif, might look a little something like this instead. Now it got a little wider. That's just because we drew the arrows to be a bit wider here. But let's focus on just how many questions are getting asked. 

Let me zoom in at the top, as before. And let me propose that we note that the start oval is at the very top, and it's asking us to ask one question first. x less than y, is one less than two? But notice here, let me zoom out, if one is, indeed, less than two, we follow this longer arrow down, marked true. We print out quote, unquote x is less than y. But then we immediately follow this next arrow down to the icon that says stop. 

So that's what's implied by doing if, elif, elif. If we get back a true answer right away to that first if, we're going to print out x is less than y and then stop. We're logically at the end of the program. So this picture is just representing, graphically, what the code is actually doing. But suppose I typed in something else. Suppose that my code actually ran, and I typed in two for x and one for y. That is to say, the answer to the first question is now false. 

But the answer to the second question is now true. Because, of course, two is greater than one. Well, let's go back to the diagram. Same as before, we start at the very top where it says start. The very first question up here, now, x less than y, is an answer of false, because no, two is not less than one. So we follow this arrow to the next question, this diamond. Is x greater than y? Well, yes, two is greater than one. 

So now we follow this left arrow, which is true. We print out quote, unquote x is greater than y, and then stop. So what's the improvement? Well, in the first case, we got lucky and we only had to ask one question and boom, we're done. This time, we had to ask two questions, but then boom, we're done. Only if x happens to equal y do we actually find ourselves, logically, getting all the way down to this final elif in my code. 

And pictorially, only if x is equal to y do we find ourselves going all the way down to the third diamond, the third question, asking is it equal to y or not? Now, hopefully, the answer at that point is not false. We've included a false arrow just so that the program itself is well-defined. But, logically, we shouldn't actually be getting there anyway, because it's got to be less than, or greater than, or equal to in this case. 

Well, let me pause here to see if there's any questions, now, either on the code version thereof here, or on this diagramming of that very same logic. Questions here, on this control flow? 

SPEAKER 1: Aren't we supposed to put an else at the end? 

DAVID MALAN: A good question. And yes-- so that's going to be my third and final approach. And if you don't mind, let's pivot there right away. Identifying a third keyword, that indeed exists in Python, that allows us to be even better at expressing this logic to design this program even better. And that's going to solve a particular problem.