Well, let's go ahead and add another piece of capability to Python, and that's this one here. Just like in English, where you can ask this question or this other question, you can say the same thing in Python using literally this word or. So let me go back to my Python code here. And let's propose how we might ask a couple of questions at once this time, perhaps this time considering how we might ask not whether or not it's greater than or equal to, and caring about the precise answer. 

Let's take a coarser approach here. And let's just try to determine is x equal to y or not? Well, let me go ahead and delete some of this code and change the question we're asking. Let me do this-- well, if I care about whether it's equal or not, let's check the possible scenarios. If x is less than y or x is greater than y, let's go ahead and print out x is not equal to y. 

Now why is that, no pun intended? If x is less than y, well, it's obviously not equal. If x is greater than y, it's obviously not equal. So we can conclude x is not equal to y. So if we, instead, want to make sure that it is equal to, we can just use Hope's else, using print quote, unquote x is equal to y. And again, why is this? 

Well, if x is less than y, or x is greater than y, they're obviously not equal. Otherwise, logically, they must be equal, in fact. So let's run this. Let's go ahead and run Python of compare.py. What's x? One. What's y? Two. OK, x is not equal to y. Let's do it again, put two for x, one for y. x is not equal to y. And one third time, how about x is one and y is one. x is now equal to y. 

Now if we want to compare that visually, too, let me propose that the picture looks a little something like this. And again, this is the exact same thing logically, but it's a pictorial representation thereof. What's the first question? Well, if x is less than y, well, then we follow the true arrow. And we say quote, unquote x is not equal to y. And then we stop. But what if x is not less than y? What if it's greater than y? What if it's two and one, respectively? 

Then the answer to x less than y, first question, is false. So we go here. We ask the second question, because of the or, and that asks is x greater than y? If so, notice this, we can kind of reuse some of the same parts of this picture, and just say x is not equal to y. We don't need to add arrows and ad boxes unnecessarily. We can reuse lines of code, parts of the picture, just as we have lines of code. And then we stop. 

Lastly, we have the following. If we know that x is not less than y, we know that x is not greater than y, it must be the case that x equals y. We don't need to ask a third question, another diamond. We can just immediately print as much, and then say stop, as well. 

Well, what could I do here? I bet I could improve this code slightly. And if we really want to be nitpicky, I would argue that this is now really just a minor refinement, but it's a good habit to get into thinking about. Could my code be better? Could my code be simpler? Could I improve this code further? It's subtle, but could I improve the design? Could I ask fewer questions? Could I tighten it up, so to speak? What do folks think? 