Well, let me propose that we introduce one other keyword here in Python, to see exactly how we might combine additional thoughts. And that's going to be literally the word and, a conjunction of one, or two, or more questions that we might want to ask at once. And let me propose, here, that we explore this kind of logic by way of another program altogether, in VS Code, whereby I'll go ahead now and create a new program, say, called grade.py. 

Let's consider exactly what grade a student should get, based on their score on an exam, or a test, or a quiz, or some other assignment like that. I'm going to go ahead and run code of grade.py, to give myself a new file. And I'm going to go ahead and start by just getting the user's score, again, on some assignment, or test, or the like. And I'm going to store it in a variable called score, equal the return value of the int function, which is going to convert whatever the user's input is when prompted for this score. 

So again, the user should just oblige by giving me a number like zero, or one, or two, or hopefully much higher than that, like 97, 98, 99, 100, assuming the test or assessment is out of 100 percentage points. Now, how could I go about assigning a grade to the student's score? Well in the US, it's very commonly the case that if you get between a 90 and 100, that's an A. 

And if it's between an 80 and a 89, it's a B. If it's 70 and 79, it's a C, and so forth, all the way down to F, which should be E, but we'll see that there's a bit of a jump. So how might I express this? Well, I can use conditionals. And I can ask a few questions and then print out the student's grade accordingly. 

So let me express it like this, if the student's score is greater than or equal to 90, and the student's score is less than or equal to 100, so it's in that range, let's go ahead and print out that their grade shall be an A. Because they're in the 90s, above grades range. elif the score is greater than or equal to 80, and the score is less than or equal to, say, 89, but here I have some options. Logically, I can actually express myself in any number of ways. 

And maybe just to be a little cleaner, I'm going to say a score is less than 90. So I'm using less than instead of less than or equal to. So I'm making sure that their boundaries between these grades are correct. Then, I'm going to go ahead and give the student a B if it's in the 80s. elif score is greater than or equal to 70, and the score is less than 80, I'm going to go ahead and give them a C. 

elif the score is greater than or equal to 60, and the score is less than 70, I'm going to go ahead and give him a D. And here's where it's a little anomalous, at least in some schools here, else I'm going to go ahead and give them an F. So we're skipping E altogether, and we're going to give an F, instead, for the grade. So that's the catch-all. And I think, logically, I've gotten this correct, at least based on where I went to school growing up, such that it's going to give an A, or a B, or a C, or a D, else it's going to assume that you got an F. 

Well, let's try just a few of these here. Let's run Python of grade.py. My score is, let's start strong, 100. I got an A. Didn't do as well the next time, maybe it's a 95-- still an A. Starting to slip further, so I got an 89 the next time. That's now, say, a B. And let's say I really had a bad week, and it's now a 71. That's now a C. Or I didn't even submit it at all, that's an F, altogether. So it seems to work. 

That's not really an exhaustive test, but at least based on some sampling there, my code seems to work as I expect. But let's see if we can't tighten this up. It's not wrong. It's correct. And, indeed, according to my own specifications, I dare say this code is correct. But can we tighten it up? Can we reduce the probability of bugs, now or down the line? Can we increase the readability of it? And can we increase the efficiency of it? Can we get the computer to have to answer fewer questions and still get the same result?