Well, let's see what we might do. Let me just switch things up, if only to demonstrate that we can use these symbols in different ways. I could say, as I've done, if score is greater than or equal to 90. But I can actually do this, I can flip it around. Instead of saying greater than or equal to, let's say 90 is less than or equal to score. And here, let's say if 80 is less than or equal to score. And here, 70 is less than or equal to score. 

And then, lastly, 60 is less than or equal to score. So it's the same thing, logically. I'm just switching things around, just like you could do on paper pencil if you really wanted. But now notice this trick. And this is not possible, for those of you who have programmed in C, or C++, or Java, or other languages. Notice what I can do here is actually combine these ranges. Notice that I'm asking two questions, two Boolean expressions. Is 90 less than or equal to score, and is score less than or equal to 100? 

Well, Python allows you to nest these things like this, and chain them together. And just like you would on paper pencil in the real world, you can encode in Python, do this, which is just a little cleaner. It's tightening up the code a little bit. It's fewer keystrokes. It's faster to type. It's easier to read, moving forward. So that's arguably better, as well. So that's one improvement. It's largely aesthetic, in this case. It's still asking the same number of questions, but it's doing it a little more succinctly still. 

Well, what more could I do here next? Well, you know what? Each time I'm deciding these grades, I don't think I have to ask two questions. I don't have to ask, is it greater than 90 and less than 100? Is it greater than 80 and less than 90? If I rethink my logic, I can maybe do this better still. Let me propose that we simplify this further, and just do this. If we know that input, for the moment, is going to be within 0 and 100, we can make some assumptions. 

We could say something like, if the score is greater than or equal to 90, well, the student gets an A. elif the score is greater than or equal to 80, the student gets a B. elif score is greater than or equal to 70, they get a C. elif the score is greater than or equal to 60, they get a D, else they get an F. So what have I done here? 

Well, instead of asking two questions every time, checking the lower bounds and the upper bound of that range, I'm being a little more clever here by asking if the score is greater than 90, well, they've obviously gotten an A or better. If your score is greater than 80, well, you either deserve an A if it's really strong, or a B if it's just above 80. But because of the elif logic, we've already checked is the student's score greater than 90? And if it's not, then we're asking the question, well, is it greater than 80? 

So you implicitly know it's somewhere in the 80 to 89 range, else you know it's in the 70 to 79 range, else it's in the next range down. So it's a minor optimization that allows us to ask fewer questions. But again, it's making the code, arguably, a little more readable, certainly more succinct, an then, hopefully, more maintainable longer term. Any questions, then, on these types of changes, and this type of logic with our code? 