

Well, let me propose that we pivot now to use another approach here that uses one other symbol that, up until now, we've not really had occasion to use. Let me propose that we implement a program that we'll call parity. In mathematics, parity can refer to whether a number is even or odd. And that's kind of an interesting question. And it turns out it can be useful in other applications, too, to just ask the question is a given number even or odd, maybe that the user typed in? 

And let me go ahead and write a new program called parity.py, via code parity.py in my terminal. And let me propose that we use this as an opportunity to introduce the last of those arithmetic symbols, at least most of which we're familiar with, addition, subtraction, multiplication, division. But there's been on this list before, this last one here, a percent sign. And it doesn't mean percentage in this case, when used as an operator in programming in Python. 

Rather, it represents the so-called modulo operator, for modular arithmetic. Or, at least in our case, we're going to use it to calculate the remainder when dividing one number by another. Well, what do I mean by that? Well, if you take a number like one divided by three, three does not go into one cleanly. So you have a remainder of one. Two divided by three has a remainder of two. Three divided by three has a remainder of zero, because it divides cleanly. 

Four divided by three has a remainder of one, because you can divide it in once, but then that leaves one, so it has a remainder of one. And then lastly, something like five divided by three has a remainder, of course, of two. So that's all we mean by remainder, how much is left over after dividing one number by another. Well, if I go back now to my code, and I consider how I might implement the question is this number even or odd? Let's consider how we might implement that, since it's perhaps not necessarily obvious how we can use this additional building block. 

But it turns out it's going to be very useful longer term. Well, let's first just get a number from the user in a variable called x. And I'm going to set that equal to the conversion to int of whatever the user inputs, after asking them what's x, question mark. And we've done that before, many times. How do I now determine if x is even or odd? Well, it turns out, if I have access to a programmatic operator that tells me the remainder, I think I can do this. 

In fact, let me just ask the group. And this is just from grade school math, perhaps, what does it mean for a number to be even, ? To be clear, a number like 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, those are all even numbers. But what does that really mean? Elena, if I'm saying that right? 

ELENA: Even numbers that can divide it exactly by two. For example, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10, and-- 

DAVID MALAN: Perfect. And we could go on all day long, literally, since there's an infinite number of those even numbers. But it's nice that you formulated it in terms of a question that we can ask very clearly. Is this number cleanly divided by two? That is, can we divide it by two with no remainder, a remainder of zero? Well, that's perfect, because if we have this operator, this percent sign, that allows us to answer just that, what is the remainder, we can presumably check is the remainder zero, or is it one? Do we have nothing left over, or do we have one left over? 

Well, let's ask that. If x divided by two has a remainder of zero, as Elena proposes, let's go ahead and print out something like quote, unquote even. And just say as much to the user. else, I think we can assume that if a number's not even, it's going to be odd, if it's, indeed, an integer. So I'm going to go ahead and print out quote, unquote odd instead. And let's go ahead and now run Python of parity.py in my prompt. What's x? Let's start with two. Two is, in fact, even. 

Let's start with four. Four is, in fact, even. Let's get interesting with three. Three is now odd. And I think we could do that all day long and hopefully get back, indeed, exactly that answer. But what more could we do here? How could we improve upon this? Well, recall that we have the ability to invent our own functions. And let me just propose, for the sake of discussion, that we're going to eventually find that it's useful to be able to determine if a number is even or odd. 

And so we'd like to have that functionality built-in. And I don't think Python has a function for telling me just that. But I can invent it using code like just this. So let me go into my earlier version here. And let me propose that we do this. Let me go ahead and write a main function. I'm going to get back into that habit of defining a main function to represent the main part of my program. And I'm going to do what I did before. I'm going to get an integer from the user's input, asking them what's x, question mark. 

And then I'm going to ask this question. For the moment, I'm going to naively assume that the function already exists, but that's a useful problem-solving technique. Even if I have no idea yet where I'm going with this, how I'm going to invent a function that determines if a number is even, I'm just going to assume that there's a function called "is even," and I'm going to call it, blindly, like this. If is even, passing in x, then go ahead and print quote, unquote even. 

So if this magical function called "is even" returns true, as its return value I am going to print out that it's even. Else, otherwise, I'm going to assume that it's, of course, odd. Now the one problem with this program, even if I call main over here, is that is even does not exist. And this program would break if I ran it right now. But that's OK. I have the ability, recall, to invent my own function. So let me define, with def, a function called "is even." 

I want this function to take an argument. And I'm going to call it n, just a number, generically. I could call it x. But again, I don't want to confuse myself as to which x is which. So I'm going to give it a different name, and that's fine. I'm just going to call it, more generically, n for number. And then I'm going to do this. I'm going to say if N % two equals equals zero, just like before, then, and here's the magic, you, the programmer, can actually return what are called Boolean values. 