Well, let me turn our attention, if I may, back to this example here, and consider, as we now frequently do, can we improve on the design of this code? Can I make this particular program better? And I can. There's a couple of ways here. And I'll show you something that's now generally known as something Pythonic. There's actually this term of art, in the Python world, where something is Pythonic if it's just the way you do things in Python. 

Which is to say, we've seen already there's so many different ways to solve certain problems. And in the Python community of programmers, there tend to be some ways that are smiled upon more than others. And they tend to relate to features that maybe only Python has, but not other languages. And here's some syntax that you might not have seen in languages like Java, or C, or C++ if you've programmed before. And if you've never programmed before, this too is going to be new. 

Instead of asking a question like this, if else using four lines, in Python, you can actually collapse this into just one more elegant line, if you will. Instead of asking if n divided by two has a remainder of zero, return true, else return false. Let me delete all of that and just say this, return true if n divided by two has a remainder of zero, else return false. 

Now those of you who do have prior programming experience might actually think this is kind of cool. You can condense, from four lines into one line, that very same thought. And one of the reasons why Python is popular is that it does tend to read rather like English. It's not quite as user-friendly as most English, or most human languages. But notice, now, the line does rather say what you mean. Return true if n divided by two has a remainder of zero, else false. 

That's pretty darn close to something you might say, logically, in English, be it about even and odd or really anything else. So that program is going to work exactly the same. Python of parity.py, let me type in two. It's still even. Let me type in three. It's still odd. But I can refine this even further. And again, consistent with this idea of not just writing correct code, but writing better and better code, but still keeping it readable, I can do one even better than this. 

Notice this value here is my Boolean expression. And it is going to evaluate to true or false. Is n divided by two having a remainder of zero or not? That is, by definition, a Boolean expression. It has a yes/no answer, a true/false answer. Well, if your Boolean expression itself has a true or false answer, why are you asking a question in the first place? Why ask if? Why say else? 

Just return the value of your own Boolean expression. And perhaps the tightest version, the most succinct, and still readable, version of this code would be to delete this whole line, Pythonic though it is, and just return n modulo two equals equals zero. If it helps, let me add parentheses temporarily, because what's going to happen in parentheses will happen first. 

n divided by two either does or does not have a remainder of zero. If it does, the answer is true. If it doesn't, the answer is false. So just return the question, if you will. You don't need to wrap it, explicitly, with an if and an else. And in fact, because of order of operations, you don't even need the parentheses. So now this is perhaps the most elegant way to implement this same idea. Now, which is better? This is pretty darn good. 

And it's hard to take fault with this because it's so very succinct. But it's perfectly OK, and just as correct, to have an if and then an else. Even though it might be four total lines, if that helps you think about your code more clearly, and it helps other people reason about it, as well. So it turns out there's another syntax that you can use to implement the same idea of a conditional, whereby you do something optionally, based on the answer to some Boolean expression. 