

And the keyword that you can now use, in recent versions of Python, is called this-- match. Match is a mechanism that, if you've programmed before, is similar in spirit to something called switch in other languages. For instance, let me go ahead here and close out parity.py And let me go ahead and create a new file called house.py. And in house.py, I think what we're going to do is try to implement a program that prompts the user for their name, and then just outputs what house they're known to be in in the world of Harry Potter. 

So for instance, let me go ahead and do this. Let me give myself a variable called name, set it equal to the return value of the input function. And I'll say something like, what's your name, question mark. And then after that, I'm just going to use a traditional if, elif, else construct to decide what house this person is in. 

So let me say if name equals equals, say Harry, as in Harry Potter, well, let's go ahead and print out Harry's house, which is Gryffindor in the world of Harry Potter. elif the name is, instead, Hermione, then go ahead and print out also quote, unquote Gryffindor, as she's in the same house, too. elif name equals equals Ron, let's go ahead and similarly print out Gryffindor quote, unquote. 

And let's make this a little more interesting now. elif name equals quote, unquote how about Draco? Draco Malfoy, in the books-- let's go ahead and print out quote, unquote Slytherin. And just in case someone else's name gets inputted, for now, let's just suppose that we don't recognize them, and say, by default, else print out quote, unquote who, question mark, just to convey that we don't actually have a hard-coded response to that particular name. 

Let me go ahead, now, and run this as Python of house.py, Enter. And I'll go ahead and type in something like Harry. And voila, we see that Harry is, indeed, in Gryffindor. Let's run it one more time, Python of house.py. Let's type in Draco this time. Slytherin. And now, let's type in an unrecognized name. Let's go ahead and rerun Python of house.py. And let's go ahead and type in Padma, Enter. And who? Because we haven't actually hard-coded with an elif condition in this case, what house Padma is meant to be in. 

Well, it turns out there's other ways to implement this. Indeed, there's some redundancy here, in that we're checking if Harry, or Hermione, or Ron are all in Gryffindor. I feel like we can at least tighten this code up a little bit, using techniques we've seen already. So let me go ahead and do this. Let me go up here and instead do something like this. Let's get rid of these two blocks of elifs, leaving just Harry's for a moment. 

And let's use that "or" keyword again, and say or name equals equals quote, unquote Hermione, or name equals quote, unquote Ron, thereby consolidating all three cases, if you will, into just one if statement. Then we still have a separate elif for Draco because he's not, in fact, in Gryffindor. And then the final else to catch anyone else. Let me go ahead now and run this version of the program, Python of house.py. I'll type in Hermione this time. She, too, is still in Gryffindor. 

Let me try it with Ron. And that, too, still seems to be correct. Well, it turns out there's another approach altogether that can perhaps make your code a little less verbose. You could imagine how complicated this code might get if we had not just Harry, and Hermione, and Ron, but a whole bunch of other names as well, for Gryffindor, for Slytherin, and for all of the other Hogwarts houses. So you could imagine that code just getting pretty unwieldy pretty fast. Well, it turns out another technique you can use is, indeed, this keyword called match, which is very similar in spirit, but the syntax is different. 

And it allows you to express the same ideas a little more compactly. So let me go back to house.py. And let me propose that I get rid of my current if, elif, else approach, and instead do this. Literally use the keyword match, and type the name of the variable, or value, that we want to match on. And then I'm going to go ahead and include a colon. And then underneath that, I'm going to include, literally, a keyword called case. And the first case I want to consider is going to be Harry. 

And I'm going to put Harry in quotes, because it's a string or a stir. And I'm going to have another colon at the end of this line. And indented under that one, I'm going to go ahead and, for now, print out Gryffindor, which, of course, is Harry's house. Otherwise, I'm going to have another case for quote, unquote Hermione. And similarly, I'm going to have under that indented, print quote, unquote Gryffindor, close quote. Now I'm going to have another case for Ron, also in quotes, with a colon. Now print quote, unquote Gryffindor. 

And now I'm going to have a other case for, let's say, Draco. This one gets a little more interesting because Draco, of course, now is in Slytherin. And then I'm going to go ahead and leave it as that for now. So let me go ahead and save this file, and go back down to my terminal window, running Python of house.py, Enter. And let's go ahead and try Harry. And he seems still to be in Gryffindor. Let's run it again for Hermione, Enter. Gryffindor. Let's skip ahead to Draco, and type in Draco's name. He is, indeed, in Slytherin. 

Now let's try another name that we haven't handled a case for, like Padma again, Enter. And we're just ignored. There's no output whatsoever because there wasn't a case for Padma. Now we could, of course, go back in and explicitly add one for Padma. But what if we, similarly to the else construct, just want a catchall that handles anyone whose name is not explicitly specified? Well, turns out the syntax for that, using this new match statement, is to still have another case, but then to use this single underscore character, which is used in other contexts in Python. 

But for here, it's meant to say whatever case has not yet been handled, go ahead and print out, as we did before, for instance, quote, unquote who, with a question mark at the end. Now let's go ahead and rerun this Python of house.py. I'll type Padma's name again. And this time, I think we're at least going to get an explicit response indicating who, whereas previously we did not have the equivalent of that. Now, I think we've regressed a little bit. We went from tightening things up by putting Harry, and Hermione, and Ron all on the same line in the same if statement. 

But here, we have now three case statements, again, for all three of those. Well, we can tighten this code up, as well. But the syntax is going to be a little bit different. I'm going to go ahead and delete these two middle cases for Hermione and Ron. And then up here, next to Harry's name, before the colon, I'm going to go ahead and use a single vertical bar, and then a quote, unquote Hermione. Then another single bar and do quote, unquote Ron. 

And this is how, using this relatively new match statement, you can say the equivalent of Harry, or Hermione, or Ron, but more concisely than you could using an if statement alone, as we implemented it previously. So now, one final run of the program with Python of house.py. Let's make sure that Harry is still in Gryffindor. Let's make sure that Hermione is still in Gryffindor. Let's make sure that Ron is still in Gryffindor. And indeed, all three of them are. 

Now, as always with Python and programming more generally, there's going to be different ways you can solve these problems. This is just another tool in your toolkit. Arguably, it has tightened things up. Arguably, it's perhaps a little more readable because there's a little less syntax going on, a little less duplication of equal signs and elif, and elif, and elif all over the place. But ultimately, this would be an equally correct approach to that same problem. But it turns out with a match statement you can do even more powerful forms of matching, as well. 

Here, we've used it simply to implement the same idea as that if, elif, else construct. And it's worth noting, if you've programmed in some other language, the syntax here is, indeed, correct. You do not need, for instance, a break statement, as has been peppered throughout. And you don't need something like default, or something explicit. You, indeed, just use this underscore as your catchall at the end of the match.