 

Well, let me propose some final refinements to this program that really just kind of tighten things up, one additional step to improve the implementation of this get int function. Let me propose that we not hard code, so to speak-- that is type manually x all over the place. Let's make this function, get int, a little more reusable. 

Right now, notice that I'm just kind of using the honor system that, well, main is defining a variable called x. And get int is asking for a variable called x. But it would be nice if the caller, main, doesn't have to know what the call-ee is naming its variables and vise versa. So caller-- to call a function means to use it. The caller is the function that's using it. 

The call-ee is just the function being called. It would be nice if I'm not just hoping that x is the same in both places. So let me propose this. Let me propose that we actually add a parameter to get int, like this. What's x? 

That is to say, if main wants to use the get int function, well, then main should probably tell the get int function what prompt to show the user. Just like the input function, recall, that comes with Python, it's up to you to pass in a prompt that the user then sees when the human is asked for input. So how do I make this work here? 

I can go down to my definition of get int. And I can say, all right, get int is going to take a parameter now, called prompt. I could call it anything I want. But prompt in English is pretty self-explanatory. 

It means the message the user will see. And now, down here, when I actually use input, I don't have to presumptuously say, what's x? Because what if the program, the caller, wants to ask for y or z or some other variable? I can just pass to input whatever prompt the caller has provided. 

So now I'm making more reusable code. It still works just the same. I haven't changed the functionality, per se. But now it's a little more dynamic because now get int doesn't have to know or care what variable's being asked for, what's being asked for. It just needs to know what prompt it should show to the user. 

So if I now run this program down here, again, prompt number.py, Enter, what's x? 50 still seems to work. Let's run it again. Let's type in cat. 

It still seems to work. And if I type in cat, dog, bird, or anything else, it will keep prompting me with that same prompt, making this code, therefore, all the more usable. Now it turns out, too, you can even raise exceptions yourself using Python's raise keyword. But more on that another time. 
