Well, in Python, there's this function called open whose purpose in life is to do just that, to open a file, but to open it up programmatically so that you, the programmer, can actually read information from it or write information to it. So open is like the programmer's equivalent of double clicking on an icon on your Mac or PC. But it's a programmer's technique because it's going to allow you to specify exactly what you want to read from or write to that file. Formally, it's documentation is here, and you'll see that it's usage is relatively straightforward. It minimally just requires the name of the file that we want to open and, optionally, how we want to open it. 

So let me go back to VS Code here, and let me propose now that I do this. I'm going to go ahead and call this function called open, passing in an argument for names.txt, which is the name of the file I would like to store all of these names in. I could call it anything I want. But because it's going to be just text, it's conventional to call it something.txt. 

But I'm also going to tell the open function that I plan to write to this file. So as a second argument to open, I'm going to put literally, quote/unquote, w, for Write, and that's going to tell open to open the file in a way that's going to allow me to change the content. And better yet, if it doesn't even exist yet, it's going to create the file for me. 

Now, open returns what's called a file handle, a special value that allows me to access that file subsequently. So I'm going to go ahead and sign it equal to a variable like file. And now I'm going to go ahead and, quite simply, write this person's name to that file. So I'm going to literally type file, which is the variable linking to that file, .write, which is a function otherwise known as a method that comes with open files that allows me to write that name to the file. And then lastly, I'm going to quite simply going to go ahead and say, file.close, which will close and effectively save the file. 

So these three lines of code here are essentially the programmer's equivalent to double clicking an icon on your Mac or PC, making some changes in Microsoft Word or some other program, and going to File, Save. We're doing that all in code with just these three lines here. Well, let's see, now, how this works. 

Let me go ahead now and run python of names.py and Enter. Let's type in a name. I'll type in Hermione, Enter. All right, where did she end up? Well, let me go ahead now and type code of names.txt, which is a file that happens now to exist because I opened it in write mode. And if I open this in a tab, we'll see there is Hermione. 

Well, let's go ahead and run names.py once more. I'm going to go ahead and run python of names.py, Enter, and this time, I'll type in Harry. Let me go ahead and run it one more time. And this time, I'll type in Ron. And now let me go up to names.txt, where, hopefully, I'll see all three of them here. 

But no. I've just actually seen Ron. What might explain what happened to Hermione and Harry, even though I'm pretty sure I ran the program three times, and I definitely wrote the code that writes their name to that file? What's going on here, do you think? 

AUDIENCE: I think because we're not appending them, we should append the names. Since we are writing directly, it is erasing the old content, and it is replacing with the last set of characters that we mentioned. 

DAVID MALAN: Exactly. Unfortunately, quote/unquote w is a little dangerous. Not only will it create the file for you, it will also recreate the file for you every time you open the file in that mode. So if you open the file once and write Hermione, that worked just fine, as we saw. 

But if you do it again for Harry, if you do it again for Ron, the code is working. But each time, it's opening the file and recreating it with brand-new contents, so we had one version with Hermione, and one version with Harry, and one final version with Ron. But ideally, I think we probably want to be appending, as Vishal says, each of those names to the file, not just clobbering-- that is, overwriting the file each time. 

So how can I do this? It's actually a relatively easy fix. Let me go ahead and do this as follows. I'm going to first remove the old version of names.txt. 

And now I'm going to change my code to do this. I'm going to change the w, quote/unquote, to just a, quote/unquote-- a for Append, which means to add to the bottom, to the bottom, to the bottom, again and again. Now let me go ahead and rerun python of names.py, Enter. 

I'll again start from scratch with Hermione because I'm creating the file new. Notice that if I now do code of names.txt, Enter, we do see that Hermione is back. So after removing the file, it did get recreated, even though I'm using append, which is good. But now let's see what happens when I go back to my terminal. And this time, I run python of names.py again-- this time, typing in Harry. 

And let me run it one more time-- this time, typing in Ron. So hopefully, this time, in that second tab, names.txt, I should now see all three of them. But, but, but, but this doesn't look ideal. What have I clearly done wrong? Something tells me, even though all three names are there, it's not going to be easy to read those back unless you know where each name ends and begins. 

AUDIENCE: The English format is not correct. The English format is not correct. It's incorrect. It's concatenating them. 

DAVID MALAN: It is. Well, it appears to be concatenating. But technically speaking, it's just appending to the file-- first Hermione, then Harry, then Ron. It has the effect of combining them back to back, but it's not concatenating, per se. 

It really is just appending. Let's go to another hand here. What really have I done wrong? Or equivalently, how might I fix? It would be nice if there were some kind of gaps between each of the names, so we could read them more cleanly. 

AUDIENCE: Hello. We should add a new line before we write new name. 

DAVID MALAN: Good. We want to add a new line ourselves. So whereas print by default, recall, always outputs, automatically, a line ending of backslash n. Unless we override it with the named parameter called end, write does not do that. 

Write takes you literally. And if you say write Hermione, that's it. You're getting the H through the e. If you say, write Harry, you get the H through the y. You don't get any extra new lines automatically. 

So if you want to have a new line at the end of each of these names, we've got to do that manually. So let me, again, close names.txt, and let me remove the current file. And let me go back up to my code here. And I can fix this in any number of ways, but I'm just going to go ahead and do this. 

I'm going to write out an f string that contains name and backslash n at the end. We could do this in different ways. We could manually print just the new line or some other technique, but I'm going to go ahead and use my f strings, as I'm in the habit of doing, and just print the name and the new line all at once. 

I'm going to go ahead now and down to my terminal window, run python of names.py again, Enter. We'll type in Hermione. I'm going to run it again, type in Harry. I'm going to type it again and this time, Ron. 

Now I'm going to run code of names.txt and open that file. And now it looks like the file is a bit cleaner. Indeed, I have each of the name on its own line as well as a line ending, which ensures that we can separate one from the other. 

Now, if I were writing code, I bet I could parse, that is, read the previous file by looking at differences between lowercase and uppercase letters. But that's going to get messy quickly. Generally speaking, when storing data long-term in a file, you should probably do it somehow cleanly, like doing one name at a time. 