
Well, it turns out, there's yet another way we could implement this same program without having to worry about precisely that order again and again and just passing in a list. It turns out, if we're keeping track of what's the name and what's the home, we could use something like a dictionary to associate those keys with those values. So let me go ahead and back up and remove these students from the file, leaving only the header row again-- name, comma, home. 

And let me go over to students.py. And this time, instead of using CSV writer, I'm going to go ahead and use csv.DictWriter, which is a dictionary writer, that's going to open the file in much the same way. But rather than write a row as this list of name, comma, home, what I'm now going to do is follows. I'm going to first output an actual dictionary, the first key of which is name, colon, and then the value thereof is going to be the name that was typed in. 

And I'm going to pass in a key of home, quote/unquote, the value of which, of course, is the home that was typed in. But with DictWriter, I do need to give it a hint as to the order in which those columns are when writing it out so that, subsequently, they could be read, even if those orderings change. Let me go ahead and pass in fieldnames, which is a second argument to DictWriter, equals, and then a list of the actual columns that I know are in this file, which, of course, are name, comma, home. Those times, in quotes because that's, indeed, the string names of the columns, so to speak, that I intend to write to in that file. 

All right, now let me go ahead and go to my terminal window, run python of students.py. This time, I'll type in Harry's name again. I'll, again, type in Number Four, comma, Privet Drive, Enter. 

Let's now go back to students.csv. And voila, Harry is back in the file, and it's properly escaped or quoted. I'm sure that if we do this again with Ron and The Burrow, and let's go ahead and run it one third time with Draco and Malfoy Manor, Enter. 

Let's go back to students.csv. And via this dictionary writer, we now have all three of those students as well. So whereas with CSV writer, the onus is on us to pass in a list of all of the values that we want to put from left to right, with a dictionary writer, technically, they could be in any order in the dictionary. In fact, I could just have correctly done this, passing in home followed by name. 

But it's a dictionary. And so the ordering in this case does not matter so long as the key is there and the value is there. And because I have passed in field names as the second argument to DictWriter, it ensures that the library knows exactly which column contains name or home, respectively. Are there any questions now on dictionary reading, dictionary writing, or CSVs more generally? 

AUDIENCE: In any specific situation for me to use a single quotation or double quotation? Because after the print, we use single quotation to represent the key of the dictionary. But after the reading or writing, we use the double quotation. 

DAVID MALAN: It's a good question. In Python, you can generally use double quotes, or you can use single quotes. And it doesn't matter. 

You should just be self-consistent so that stylistically your code looks the same all throughout. Sometimes, though, it is necessary to alternate. If you're already using double quotes, as I was earlier for a long f string, but inside that f string, I was interpolating the values of some variables using curly braces, and those variables were dictionaries. 

And in order to index into a dictionary, you use square brackets and then quotes. But if you're already using double quotes out here, you should generally use single quotes here, or vise versa. But otherwise, I'm in the habit of using double quotes everywhere. Others are in the habit of using single quotes everywhere. It only matters sometimes if one might be confused for the other. Other questions on dictionary writing or reading? 

AUDIENCE: Yeah, my question is, can we use multiple CSV files in any program? 

DAVID MALAN: Absolutely. You can use as many CSV files as you want. And it's just one of the formats that you can use to save data. Other questions on CSVs or File I/O? 

AUDIENCE: Thanks for taking my question. So when you're reading from the file as a dictionary, you had the fields called. When you're reading, couldn't you just call the row? the previous version of the students.py file, when you're reading each row, you were splitting out the fields by name. Yeah, so when you're appending to the students list, couldn't you just call for row and reader, students.append row, rather than naming each of the fields? 

DAVID MALAN: Oh, very clever. Short answer, yes, in so far as DictReader returns one dictionary at a time, when you loop over it, row is already going to be a dictionary. So yes, you could actually get away with doing this. And the effect would really be the same in this case. Good observation. How about one more question on CSVs? 

AUDIENCE: Yeah, when reading in CSVs from my past work with data, a lot of things can go wrong. I don't know if it's a fair question that you can answer in a few sentences. But are there any best practices to double check that no mistakes occurred? 

DAVID MALAN: It's a really good question. And I would say, in general, if you're using code to generate the CSVs and to read the CSVs, and you're using a good library, theoretically, nothing should go wrong. It should be 100% correct if the libraries are 100% correct. 

You and I tend to be the problem. When you let a human touch the CSV, or when Excel, or Apple Numbers, or some other tools involved that might not be aligned with your code's expectations, things then, yes, can break. The goal-- sometimes, honestly, the solution is manual fixes. 

You go in and fix the CSV, or you have a lot of error checking, or you have a lot of try, except just to tolerate mistakes in the data. But generally, I would say, if you're using CSV or any file format internally to a program to both read and write it, you shouldn't have concerns there. You and I, the humans, are the problem, generally speaking-- and not the programmers, the users of those files, instead. 
