All right, so now I claim I've written some code. How do I go about running it? Well, how do you run a program on your Mac or PC? What do you typically do? You double-click it, right? Unfortunately, there doesn't seem to be anything obvious to double-click here. In fact, there's no icon on my screen. And in fact, there's no program, per se, yet. Because computers, recall from last week, don't understand English. They don't technically understand C, per. Se what is the language that computers speak and understand? AUDIENCE: Binary. DAVID MALAN: Yeah, so binary, zeros and ones. And yet, this clearly is not zeros and ones. And frankly, none of us would have a good time if coding involved, these days, literally writing zeros and ones, which, in some sense, it did involve way back in the day. But nowadays, it turns out there's a solution to this problem. This, as cryptic as it looks to most of us in this room, at least you can imagine eventually getting comfortable, probably, with this syntax, once you learn the rules and the syntax and so forth. But we need to convert it somehow to zeros and ones. And how to do that is perhaps not obvious. So it turns out if we want to convert code like this to zeros and ones that the computer understands, there needs to be some intermediate step. I actually need, on my Mac or PC or this cloud-based environment, a program that is going to take as input my source code, which is that language called C, and is going to produce as output what's called machine code. So source code is something like C or Python or Java or C++ and maybe other languages you've heard about. It's English-like syntax in which you write programs. Machine code is the zeros and ones that every computer actually understands. So to get from source code to machine code, there needs to be some kind of algorithm or, more specifically, a piece of software that does that conversion. And that piece of software is what we're going to start calling a compiler. So we're going to write code literally by just typing commands at a keyboard. We're going to save those commands in a file, just like you saved your code in Scratch. But before I can run my program and do the equivalent of double-clicking on it, I need to run it through a compiler and produce output, which is zeros and ones. So how do I go about doing that? This is the first of the more esoteric commands, but it turns out it's relatively straightforward to do. At the top of my programming environment-- again, I have my code here at top left. And if I scroll down to the bottom, I have this, again, so-called terminal window. And the dollar sign is just a weird human convention. The dollar sign just means type something here. That's your so-called prompt, or your shell. But the blinking cursor is just inviting me to type a command at this prompt. The first command I'm going to type is what's called Clang for C language. Clang is the name of a program that exists to compile code. Someone else wrote this. Someone else online built this program called Clang-- a whole group of people, in fact. Made it freely available for me and you to download onto your own Macs or PCs or this sandbox environment. And we can use Clang to convert source code to machine code. So I'm going to go ahead and run Clang hello.c. I've not hit Enter yet, but the moment I hit Enter, we're going to see something happen. Let me go up to this little folder icon up here, and you can actually see all of the files in my current sandbox, so to speak, my programming environment. There's, of course, only one, because the only file I've created thus far is called hello.c. But notice what happens the moment I hit Enter, after having typed out Clang hello.c. So clearly something else exists now, and it's a really stupid name and very cryptic. It's a.out, but you can perhaps guess what's inside of that new file. What might be inside of it? AUDIENCE: Machine code. DAVID MALAN: Yeah, machine code. So it stands for assembly output, but that just means machine code. So inside of this file are a whole bunch of zeros and ones that correspond to this code, but in binary, in the language the computer can understand. So literally what I just did was this-- I took as input code that looks like this, written in C. I ran it as input into the compiler and produced this output, zeros and ones. And those zeros and ones were automatically saved for me inside of a file that, by human convention, is called a.out. All right, but someone proposed earlier, to run a program, typically, on your Mac and PC, you just double-click it. But there's really nothing to double-click. And in fact, if I double-click on this, it's going to look really weird, and the computer's not going to understand it. Because it's zeros and ones that aren't meant to be clicked. They're meant to be executed at this command prompt. So let me go ahead and do this. This, too, is cryptic. But I'm going to go ahead and do ./a.out. And this, weird as this may look at first glance, is how I tell the computer, run the program a.out in my current directory. So that period that I typed first just means it's literally right here, in my current folder, as though you're double-clicking on it on your Mac or PC. And /a.out means look in this directory, and run the program in the file called a.out. So let me go ahead and hit Enter. And voila, hello world. So you were very impressed last week, as I recall, when I made the cat say, hello world. Here, we seem less than underwhelmed. But hello world is now my program in C that's done exactly the same thing. But admittedly, it looks a little stupid at the moment. It looks a little buggy. What rubs you the wrong way, even if you've never programmed before? AUDIENCE: Dollar sign. DAVID MALAN: Yeah, the dollar sign. I didn't mean to say hello world dollar sign, but that dollar sign is just like an artifact, right? What is the dollar sign again? AUDIENCE: Prompt. DAVID MALAN: It's just that prompt. It's waiting for another command, and that's why my cursor is blinking there. But it just looks stupid, right? We could argue that this was my intent, but frankly, I'd be lying. That doesn't quite do what I want it to do. And this is because, unlike Scratch-- which, again, is more user friendly-- C, and many languages like it, literally will only do what you tell them to do. At no point did I tell the computer to move the cursor to a new line. I didn't finish that thought. I said, hello, comma, world, and that's it. I never sent a command to the computer to actually move that cursor, but I can. So let me go back up to my code here. And it turns out that in C, if you tell the computer to print hello, comma, world, that is literally all it's going to print for you. If you want to print a new line, you need to use a special command, a special character called a new line character, which is represented by backslash n. Now, why is that? Well, it's really because even though you might be inclined to hit Enter like this and just hit Enter like you would hope the computer would do, even if you've never programmed before, this probably should start to rub you in the wrong way. It just looks a little weird. It looks a little messy, that one line is up here and the second line is down here. So what humans decided years ago is let's just have a simple instruction, backslash n, that tells the computer to move that new line down. So let me go ahead and zoom out now. In the sandbox, it automatically saves like Google Docs, so you don't have to go to File, Save or anything like that. If I go ahead now and rerun this program ./a.out Enter, it's not yet fixed. Let me go ahead and zoom in. Notice that the symptom is still there. Why? What mistake have I already made? Yeah, I didn't recompile it. So again, the computer is going to start taking you very, very literally now that you're programming it to do things. And if you want to run the new version of your code, you are literally going to have to do something like Clang and then hello.c, Enter. And nothing seems to happen. And frankly, and ironically, when you don't see any output, that usually is a good thing. When you do see output, it's usually a list of, like, five mistakes that you made or error messages that we'll soon see. But we still have a.out. It's just a newer version thereof. So if I go ahead and zoom in now and do this-- ./a.out, Enter-- now I have a more impressive version of hello world. I've just cleaned it up a little bit. All right, let me pause for just a moment and see if there are any questions on these mechanics thus far. Yeah? AUDIENCE: Why is line 2 empty? DAVID MALAN: Say it a little louder. AUDIENCE: Why is line 2 empty? DAVID MALAN: Why is line 2 empty? Oh, really good question. So line 2 is empty just because I have decided stylistically it looks a little better. Much like in an English essay, you might hit Enter, Enter to just separate your paragraphs, so will programmers often separate their code, just to make it a little easier to digest so it doesn't look like just one big blob of code. But it's not necessary, and I could omit it. Other questions? Yeah? AUDIENCE: Can you rename a.out so that you have more than one file in your directory? DAVID MALAN: Really good question. Can you rename a.out so that you can have more than one file or program in the same directory? Absolutely. So let me do that right now. It turns out that when you run commands on a computer like Clang, you don't have to only say the name of the program and the name of the file. You can add additional options, otherwise known as command-line arguments. And here, too, it's a little arcane. You have to know what's possible in order to type these things out. But it turns out that with Clang-- and if you read the documentation, you would see-- you can actually say -o for output. And then you can specify any name that you want for the file in which your machine code is going to be saved. So notice what happens now. When I hit Enter now, watch the top left-hand corner, where I have a.out and hello.c. I now have hello, as well. And so now I can go ahead and say ./hello instead of a.out, and the result will now be the same.
