And let me take this as an opportunity to point out one other thing. Even though we see this graphical interface over here, this is just convenient, because you and I are generally familiar with that interface from our own Macs and PCs. But I can do everything via this command prompt that I can do via my mouse. In fact, in this programming environment, I can type a command called ls for list. It's shorthand notation, because years ago, humans decided, well, why type L-I-S-T if we can just type ls, which sounds kind of the same. And thus was born the ls command, which quite simply displays a list of all the files in that current folder or directory. And we see the same thing-- a.out, hello, and hello.c. And you can perhaps infer or guess, what does the asterisk mean after a.out and hello, perhaps? AUDIENCE: Executable. DAVID MALAN: It's executable, which just means there's machine code in there that can be run by the computer, whereas hello.c does not have that asterisk or star after it, which just means it's source code. So you can even visually distinguish source code from machine code from machine code. Now, suppose that I don't want a.out to exist anymore, because it looks like a stupid name. I'm never going to remember what the program is. Well, you can type other commands, like rm, for remove, a.out. And then hit Enter. And it's a little arcane. It says remove regular file a.out. Notice the prompt is now blinking after that question mark. I can go ahead and type Y for yes or yes for yes. Notice that nothing seems to have happened. But how can I check what files now exist in this folder? Yeah, so just ls again, and now I'm down to those two files. So it turns out there's other commands, too, that we can type. And there's commands like ls and rm. There's mkdir for make directory. There's rmdir for remove directory. And anytime you have to know or use one of these commands, we'll make sure to tell you in the problem set. But realize anything you can do with your mouse and that graphical user interface, can you also do at this command line.