

All right. Well, allow me to propose now that we take a look at one other feature of Python that we've seen before. But it turns out we can use it even more powerfully as our programs become more sophisticated and the problems we're trying to solve themselves become more involved. 

Let me go ahead and turn to VS Code, closing out meows.py, and creating a new file for instance, called unpack.py. So code of unpack.py. And let me just remind us what we mean by unpacking. Because this is actually a feature of Python that we've seen before. 

For instance, suppose that I write a program that prompts the user for their name, like David space Malan. Wouldn't it be nice if we could split the user's name into two separate variables? And when we've done this in the past, we've done it in a few different ways. But one of them involved unpacking a single value that comes back from that, like a list or some other data structure, and putting it immediately into two variables. 

So let's do this here. Let me go ahead and call the input function, asking someone what's your name, question mark. Then, let me go ahead and just split a little naively on a single space. 

So I'm assuming that the only users at the moment are people like me, David space Malan. No middle names, no multiple names. It's just one and two, which itself could be buggy for other users. But for now, I'm keeping it simple, just to remind us that I can now unpack that return value with something like first underscore last equals the return value of input. 

And now I can go ahead and do something like this, like printing out with an f string, Hello, comma, and then in curly braces, first. If I just want to greet myself or any other user as, Hello, David, without the last name. And frankly, if I'm not using the last name, recall that a Python convention is just to name it underscore to make clear that you know you're not using that value. But it does need to be there because you're unpacking two values at once. 

So if I run this, it won't be all that unfamiliar. I'm just going to run now Python of unpack.py. I'll type in David Malan, which has a single space. And there we have it, Hello, comma, David. 

Well, it turns out that there's other ways to unpack values. And there's other features that Python offers, especially when it comes to defining and using functions. And this is slightly more intermediate functionality, if you will, that's useful, because you can start to write even more elegant and powerful code once you get comfortable with syntax like this. 

So let me go ahead and propose that we not just play with, Hello names anymore, but instead do something maybe involving some coinage again. So maybe not dollars and cents, but maybe, again, as in the past, some galleons, and sickles, and knuts which among which there's a mathematical relationship as to how many of those in the wizarding world equal each other. 

And let me go ahead and do this. Let me define a simple function called total that just tells me the total value of someone's vault in Gringotts, the wizarding bank, based on how many galleons, sickles, and knuts that they have, which again, are currencies from the wizarding world as opposed to our actual human world. 

So this total function might take a variable like galleons and sickles and knuts like this. And then, it's going to return the formula, which I admittedly had to look up myself. And it turns out that the formula for converting galleons and sickles to knuts would be this. Galleons times 17 plus sickles, then times all of that by 29 and then add in the individual knuts. Not sure in what detail this came up in the books or movies. But here we have it, the official formula. 

All right. Now let's go ahead and do this. Let me go ahead and call the total function with just some sample inputs. Suppose that someone like Harry has 100 galleons, 50 sickles, and 25 knuts. Let me go ahead and print that out on the screen. 

Well, if total returns an integer, which I think this arithmetic expression will do, let me go ahead and store, rather, pass the return value of total to print. And then just for clarity, let me write knuts at the end So? I know that the unit of measure here is indeed knuts in total. 

Now, let me go ahead in my terminal window and run Python of unpack.py and hit Enter. And it turns out mathematically that if I got my math correct, 100 galleons plus 50 sickles plus 25 knuts equals in total 50,775 knuts. Just avoiding having to use our own human currency here. But I'm not doing anything along the lines of unpacking at least just yet. 

Let me propose now that I do this. Just for the sake of discussion, let me propose that I leave the total function as is. But let me go ahead and just store all of my coins in a list. So coins in order from left to right, 100, 50, 25, it just because for whatever purposes in this story I have all of my coinage in a list in this order. Kind of a purse or wallet of sorts. 

Well, how can I pass this in? Well, I'm not going to hard-code the same values twice. Just for the sake of discussion, how could I pass in the individual elements of a list to my total function? Well, of course, I could treat this list as I always do using numeric indices by doing coins bracket zero, coins bracket one, coins bracket two. So this is old-school stuff with lists. 

If I've got a list called coins and there's three elements, the indices or indexes of those elements are zero, one, and two respectively from left to right. So all I'm doing here now is passing in the first element from that list as galleons, the second element of that list as sickles, and the third element of this list as my knuts. And that lines up with, of course, the signature of this function, which as total expects that I've passed in those three things in that order left to right. 

Let me go ahead and run, just to make sure I haven't broken anything, unpack.py and hit Enter. And the math still checks out. But this is getting a little verbose-- a little verbose. And wouldn't it be nice if I could just pass the list of coins to this total function? Wouldn't it be nice if I could just say something like this, coins. 

But let me pause and ask the group, why would this not actually work as is? It technically is passing in all three. But why would I get some kind of error when I run this? Eric? 

STUDENT: Because you are passing a list to galleons. 

DAVID J. MALAN: Yeah. I'm passing a list to galleons and nothing for sickles and knuts. And notice, those don't have default values. There's no equal signs on that first line of code, which means Python is not going to know what value should be assumed there. So it just seems like it's not going to work. Plus, it's the wrong type, as Eric notes. It's a list and it's not an integer as it was before. 

So let's actually run this incorrect version, Python of unpack.py Enter, type error. And that is probably what you might expect, like I'm messing up with the types here. And I am required to pass in two positional arguments, sickles and knuts, that were not even passed. So I've definitely erred here. 

But it certainly seems unfortunate if the only solution to this is to do what I previously did, which is index into the first element, index into the second element, index into the third. You can imagine, with bigger fancier functions that take even more arguments, this is going to get very verbose and honestly very vulnerable, potentially, to just mistakes, typos on my part. 

But here too is where you can do what's known, again, as unpacking a value in Python. Right now, a list is packed with multiple values. My current list has these three values, 100, 50, and 25 respectively. But they're all packed up in this one list. Wouldn't it be nice if I could unpack that list, just like I previously unpacked the return value of the str class's split function into multiple things too. 

And indeed, I can do just that. Python actually allows me to pass in not coins but star coins. So if you use a single asterisk at the beginning of your variable, that will unpack it. And it will take one sequence, in this case coins of size three, and explode it, if you will, unpack it into three individual arguments. No commas are needed. Python just handles this for you. 

But the effect of passing in star coins is to pass in the individual members of that list. Which in this case are going to be 100, 50, and 25 respectively. Which is perfect, because now it's going to line up with galleons, sickles, knuts respectively. 

So now when I run Python of unpack.py, we're back in business and the math checks out. But I've cleaned up my code by just introducing this new symbol, which we've used, of course, in other contexts for multiplication and the like. But now, it's also used for unpacking in this way. 

Questions on what we've just done? It's a single operator, but it's already quite powerful. Because it allows us to take a data structure and unpack it and pass it in individually. 

STUDENT: Does that work for tuples, sets, dicts, dictionaries as well? 

DAVID J. MALAN: Tuples, yes. Sets I don't know. [? Ranshin? ?] I don't know if order is preserved. No. Oh, is that no it does not, or you're checking? Order's not preserved. So it wouldn't work with set? It does not work with set. Does not work with set. 

Sorry, I'm verbally googling here just to save us some keystrokes. So it would work for enumerations that where order is indeed preserved. And we'll see another example in a moment where it actually can be used in a different way for dictionaries, which nowadays do preserve order. Other questions on unpacking in this way? 

STUDENT: Yes. Hi. 

DAVID J. MALAN: Hello. 

STUDENT: Can you use unpacking to get the value, for example 10 plus 50 plus 25 instead of a for loop and then result plus? 

DAVID J. MALAN: Short answer, no. If you want the individual values, you should be just indexing, in this case, into those specific locations. This is returning multiple values, the equivalent of a comma separated list. So you would use the earlier approach if you cared about the individual locations. How about one other question on unpacking? 

STUDENT: What if we have declared-- we declare some default values. And if you use this as two points, will it go out right, or will it skip it? 

DAVID J. MALAN: Good question. If I heard you right, what if, for instance, the list has four values like this here and you're still unpacking it when it's only three that's expected. Well, let's try it. Python of unpack.py Enter. 

Another type error. This time it takes three positional arguments but four were given. So the onus is on us as the programmer not to do that in this case. So potentially fragile, but avoidable if I'm controlling the contents of this list. 

In fact, let me propose now that we take a look at another variant of this. Whereby we use not just positional arguments, whereby we trust that the first is galleons, the second is sickles, the third is knuts. Suppose that we actually passed in the names as we're allowed to do in Python. And then, technically, we could pass them in in any order and Python would figure it out using named parameters instead. 

Well, how might I do this? Well, it's going to be a bit of a regression at first. So let me get rid of this list here. Let me change this now to just manually passing the values I care about. Galleons I want to still equal 100. Sickles I want to equal 50. And knuts I want to equal 25. 

So this is old-school parameter passing. It's no longer positional. I'm explicitly specifying the names of these arguments. But that's just going to work because that's exactly what the names of these parameters are in my total function as before. 

Let's make sure I, nonetheless, did not break anything. Let's run Python of unpack.py Enter. And there we have it, still 50,775 knuts. 

Well, once you start giving things names and values, names and values, that probably should bring to mind one of our most versatile data structures in Python and even other languages, that of a dictionary. Remember that a dictionary is just a collection of key value pairs, names and their respective values. 

So this kind of opens up an opportunity. What if I did this. What if I actually had for some reason in my program on a variable as before called coins. But instead of making it a list of three values like before, what if it's a proper dictionary? So what if it's galleons, quote unquote, colon 100 for 100 of those, sickles quote unquote and 50 of those, and knuts quote unquote 25 of those, each of those separated by colons. 

And let me fix my square brackets to this time be curly braces, which, recall, is the symbol we use for dictionaries or dict objects in Python. So now, I have a dictionary called coins. Not a list. It's a collection of keys and values, three keys, galleons, sickles, knuts, and three values, 100, 50, and 25 respectively. 

If I were to now pass these individual values into my total function, I could do it as always with my dictionary. So I'm doing it old-school now. Coins is the name of my dictionary. I index into it not with numbers like with lists, but with words. So galleons, strings like this, coins, quote unquote, sickles in square brackets there. And then lastly, coins, square brackets, quote unquote, knuts. 

So it's getting-- it's verbose again. This is not maybe the best road to go down. But we'll backpedal in a moment. This is just how, if you happen to have all of your coins stored in a dictionary, you could pass the galleons, sickles, and knuts into your function respectively. Let's make sure I didn't break anything. Let's rerun Python of unpack.py, and we're still good. 

Now, how could we get to a situation like this? Well, as always, imagine this program is a little longer than this one here. And somehow you're using a dictionary maybe just to keep track of someone's purse or wallet, like how many coins of each type that they have. And as such, it's perfectly reasonable to use a dictionary. 

But then you want to print out the total. And darn it. If that total function does not expect a dictionary so you cannot just do something nice and simple like pass in coins. For reasons we saw earlier, that would be a type error. Total expects three arguments, three integers. You can't just pass in a dictionary. But if that's the data structure you're using to store the person's purse or wallet, well, it's kind of unfortunate that we have this clash between these data types. 

Well, here's what we can do. We can't pass in coins. Because watch, if I try doing that and run Python of unpack.py, we're getting another type error. Missing two required positional arguments. Sickles and knuts, I have to pass in three things. 

But, wonderfully, Python allows you to unpack dictionaries as well. For a dictionary, you don't use a single asterisk, you use two. And what this syntax has the effect of doing is passing in three values with names. It has the effect of passing in galleons equals 100 comma, sickles equals 50 comma, knuts equals 25. 

And so, it has the similar effect to the list unpacking. But that just passed in the values, 100, 50, 25 separated by commas in effect. When unpacking a dictionary, it passes in the keys and the values separated conceptually with equal signs just like our function expects. 

So if I now run Python of unpack.py again, we're still good, but we've tightened our code up again. And now, I'm giving myself yet another option. I can either store a wizard's purse or wallets in their-- in a list as we did earlier. Or I can store it in a little more versatility-- with even more specificity using a dictionary instead. 

And so, to be clear, let me rewind. Star star coins is the same thing if I rewind a little bit to our first example of named arguments is equivalent to what I've highlighted here. When you unpack a dictionary, it passes in all of the keys and all of the values much like the syntax here. But let me tighten it up and go to where we left off. Questions now on unpacking? 

STUDENT: Can we have a-- in this dictionary, can we have instead of having a constant name value pair, can we have a variable number of name value pairs? 

DAVID J. MALAN: Short answer, yes. You can have more than three key value pairs as I have here. But it's not going to work unpacking it if the total function is expecting only three. So if I were to add something here, like let me introduce pennies to the wizarding world. And suppose I have one penny, for instance. 

And now I run this same code, Python of unpack.py, we're back to a type error again. Whereby I got an unexpected keyword argument pennies, because that is not expected by the total function. We will see in just a moment, wonderfully, a solution though to that. But for now, it does not work. Other questions on unpacking with dictionaries or lists? 

STUDENT: In list-- in list values, we gave the same number of arguments and we declared a default value in the function. Now, if you use this asterisk, will it overwrite that value or will it skip that default value? 

DAVID J. MALAN: A good question. If we did have default values up here, for instance, equals zero, equals zero, equals zero, the upside of that, recall, from our discussion of arguments to functions a while back, is that now you don't have to pass in all of those values. They will default to those zeros. 

Therefore, you could pass in fewer than three values, either using a list or a dictionary that's unpacked in this scenario. I deliberately did not do that because I wanted us to encounter this specific error in this case. But you could absolutely go back and add those defaults. 

So it turns out that this single asterisks or this double asterisk is not only used in the context of unpacking. That same syntax is actually used as a visual indicator in Python when in a function itself might very well take a variable number of arguments. 

That is to say, a function can be variadic. Which means that it doesn't necessarily have to take, say, three arguments specifically. Even if they do or don't have default values, it can take maybe zero, or one, or two, or three. And it turns out the syntax for implementing the same idea is quite similar in spirit. 

In fact, let me go back to VS Code here. And let me propose that we start over with this code and get rid of our notion of galleons, and sickles, and knuts, and do something just a little more generic just so that we've seen the syntax for this. Suppose that I define a function as follows. Define a function, let's call it f. And that function is not going to take a specific number of arguments but a variable one. 

And so, I'm going to go ahead and use this syntax here, star args, which indicates that this function is indeed variadic. It takes some variable number of positional arguments. Positional in the sense that they go typically from left to right. But I don't know how many just yet I want to support. 

Suppose that I additionally want to support some number of keyword arguments, that is, named parameters that can be called optionally and individually by their own name. Well, the convention syntactically here would be to use two stars and then kwargs. I could call args, or kwargs, anything else that I want. 

But a convention you'll frequently see in Python's own documentation is that when you have placeholders like this for some number of arguments and some number of keyword arguments, the world tends to use args and kwargs. 

Well, inside of this function, let's do something super simple just for now. Let me go ahead and print out literally quote unquote positional, just to indicate to myself while wrapping my mind around what's going on here what the positional arguments are. 

And let me quite simply print out those args. This is not something you would typically do. You don't typically just take in these arguments and print them, no matter how many there are. I'm just doing this diagnostically for now to show you how the syntax works. 

Now, let me go ahead at the bottom of my file-- and I won't bother with a main function this time so we can focus only on this function f. Let me go ahead and just call f with three arguments. I'll use the same arguments as before. But I didn't bother giving them names just yet, like galleons, and sickles, and knuts, and the like. 

So what do I have? A program that no matter what calls this function f, but it first defines f at the top of the file. It's taking some number of positional arguments, some number of named arguments. 

And for the moment, I'm just printing out the positional ones. Let me go ahead and in my terminal window run Python of unpack.py and hit Enter. And you'll see that the positional arguments passed in are apparently this-- a sequence, 100, 50, 25. 

But notice this. If I clear my terminal window there and pass in something else, like five, a fourth argument. Previously, if I tried to change the number of arguments I'm passing in to my total function, which was only defined as taking three, I would have gotten a type error, some visual indication that, no, you can't pass in more or fewer arguments than is actually in the function's definition. 

But now watch. If I run Python of unpack.py, this time passing in 100, 50, 25, and 5, a fourth argument, all four of those went through just fine. I can get rid of all of those but one, for instance now, rerun my program after clearing my screen. 

And now, I'll see just one argument here. And even though there's a comma and nothing after it, this is actually the syntax when seeing a tuple, in effect, whereby the comma just indicates this is indeed a list, but there's only one element therein. 

Well, let's get a little more curious too. Let me go ahead and rewind here to where we started with just those three values. And this time, let me go ahead and print out my named argument, so to speak, which isn't args but kwargs. Again, the positional args in this syntax come first. The named arguments, kwargs come second. That's what Python prescribes. 

So now, let me go ahead and not pass in just these numbers. Let me go ahead and pass in actually named arguments. So let me do something now more specifically, like galleons equals 100, and sickles equals 50, and knuts equals 25. I'm not going to bother doing any math with total. I just want to poke around right now at this functionality of having a variable number of arguments. 

And what's neat now is if I run Python of unpack.py and hit Enter, no problem. What kwargs is, is automatically a dictionary that contains all of the named arguments that were passed to my function. 

Which is to say, when designing your own functions, if you want to support more than one argument, maybe more than two, or three, or four, maybe a variable number of arguments, indeed, you can support both a variable number of positional arguments that are just value comma value comma value, or any number of named arguments, where you actually put the name of the parameter equals the value and then maybe a comma and some more of the same. 

So now, it turns out we have seen this before in some of the functions we've used to date. We didn't necessarily see it called args or necessarily see it called kwargs. But we have seen at least one example of this in the wild. Recall our old friend print, which we've been using now for weeks. 

And when we first looked at the documentation for print way back when, it looked a little something like this. The first argument to print was objects. And I waved my hand at the time at the asterisk that was at the start of that variable name. 

But then we had sep for separator, the default value of which was a space. We had n, the default value of which was a new line. And then some other names arguments that we waved our hands at then and I'll again do now. 

But what you can now perhaps infer from our emphasis on these asterisks today, the single stars or the double stars, is that you know what? This is the convention in Python's documentation to indicate that print takes a variable number of arguments. 

So if we were to look at the actual implementation of the print function implemented by Python's own authors, it might very well look something like this. Def print, and then the first our argument would be star objects, thereby indicating that print takes a variable number of arguments. The next one of which might be sep equals quote unquote either using double quotes or as in the documentation single quotes too. 

The next one of which might be n, the default value of which is a new line. And then some of those other named arguments that we've not looked at as well. And then, maybe inside of the print function implemented by the authors of Python, maybe there's a for loop like for object in objects that allows them to iterate over each of those variable number of objects and print each of them. 

And this is why in programs past, you and I have been able to do just print open parentheses close parenthesis with nothing inside. Or you and I have been able to print out something like, Hello, world, a single string inside of those parentheses. Or you and I have been able to do a single string, Hello, and then another string quote unquote world, thereby passing in two arguments or even more. 

So we've long had this ability to use variadic functions, whereby you can pass in a variable number of arguments. What you now have via this args and kwargs syntax-- but again, they do not need to be called that-- is the ability using that star or two stars to implement those kinds of functions yourself. 

My own f function a moment ago did not do anything all that interesting. But it hints at how you could, if in the future you have a use case, for taking zero or one or more of either type of argument. Any questions now on these types of arguments? 

STUDENT: What will happen if you print kwargs and the argument is like a list? 

DAVID J. MALAN: Ah. So what would happen if you print the argument like it's a list? So I think we saw that. If I roll back in my history here to when I had that f function. Which I called f just to be very generic just so we could play around with the syntax. This is what I had here. So this is a-- I passed in 100 comma 50 comma 25. That gets automatically stored in args. 

And when I run it, you can actually see that sequence of values by running Python of unpack.py. There is that sequence all in the form of one single variable. I'm printing it just for diagnostic purposes. This is not really a useful or pretty program. But it hints at how we can access that whole sequence of values. Other questions on this approach here? 

STUDENT: Can we pass the kwargs from one function to another function? 

DAVID J. MALAN: Absolutely. You can pass either of those to another function, which you might want to do if you want to wrap another function, provide some additional functionality, but still pass in all of the supported arguments to the underlying function as well. 