All right, so let's look at one final set of definitions. It turns out that in C, we have a whole list of data types besides just strings and besides ints. And we'll see these and use these over time. You can have a bool, so to speak, which is literally the value true or false. And we use that implicitly earlier when I just said while true. You can have a char, or character, which is a single character, not two or more or a phrase. It's just like the letter Y or N if you're asking the question yes or no. You can have an int, of course, which is an integer, a string, which is one or more characters inside of double quotes. So it's bigger than an individual char, typically. And then there's a few other data types-- int and long. So int is typically a certain size. You can only count so high with an int. Typically, you can count as high as 4 billion with an int, and that's not big enough for certain applications. Today's biggest companies like Facebook and Microsoft and Google have many more pieces of data than 4 billion. So there exist things called long, which actually use more bits. They're wider values, so they can count even higher. A float is a floating point value, which is a fancy way of saying a real number, something that has a decimal point. And a double is just a real number that can have even more digits after the decimal point. So we'll see those before long. Well, what other features does the CS50 the library provide? It gives you not only the function get_string, we'll see a few others like get_int or get_float or get_double or get_char. These are all functions that will prompt the human with the blinking prompt for certain values that they might want to provide. And then for placeholders, let's round this out. Printf, recall, had a placeholder for percent s for a string. Turns out there's a few other placeholders, as well. If you want to plug in an int, we're going to start using percent i. If you want to plug in a float-- that is, a real number-- you're going to use percent f. And there's a couple of other format codes, as well. But we've seen just one of those thus far. And then in terms of arithmetic operations, you can do a lot of mathematics very simply. And we'll do just a couple of examples, literally just by using the characters that you might be inclined to type on the screen. So, in short, suppose that we want to go ahead and write one program of our own. We can use any number of these functions-- get_int and get_float and get_more. But before that, let's go ahead and take a five-minute break here, because that was quite the fire hose, indeed. Cookies await in the lobby outside, and we'll resume in five minutes.